Errant Earth Base


Fie;d	
WARNING!	5
False Hopes & Rising Temptation	6
Steel & Wires: Technology	7
Inland Empire: Psychic	8
Arcana Mystica: Magic	9
Earthblood & Unnatural Phenomenon	11
The Tears	12
The Drifters	12
Great Lakes Confederacy	13
Drifting Vagabonds	15
Opposed Checks	16
Saves	16
Difficulty Rating	17
Defaulting	17
The 99/00 & Skills Over 100%	17
Damage Scaling [M6]	18
Drifter Creation	19
Attributes	19
Skills	23
Cultural and Domestic Skills	26
Electronics and Mechanics Skills	27
Espionage and Rogue Skills	28
Medical Skills	28
Military Skills	29
People Skills	30
Science Skills	31
Technical Skills	32
Psychic Skills	33
Magic Skills	33
Wilderness Skills	33
ATB Skills	34
Combat Training	36
Weapon Proficiencies	36
Weapon Specialties	37
Background & Occupations	41
Backgrounds	44
Occupations	79
Initial Karma	107
Derived Attributes	108
Packs & Credits	110
Background Occupation Mergers	110
Endurance and Health	111
Warfare on Errant Earth	112
Seizing the Initiative	112
Natural & Mechanized Survival Rating	113
Armor Rating	113
Combat Actions	114
Momentum Actions	115
Reactive Actions	118
Taking Damage	119
Critical Hits and Critical Damage	119
Combat Mapping	121
Field Combat	121
CQC	123
Mystica Magica	124
Magic Power	124
Schools of Thought	125
Heat & Burnout	128
Grimoire	129
Spells	132
Gestures	134
Glyphs	136
Cantrips	139
Inland Empire	142
Extra Sensory Power	142
Heat & Pushing	144
Mesial Powers	145
Resonant Powers	146
Charge Powers	148
Latent Powers	153
Adventure on Errant Earth	154
Travel	154
Travel Challenges	156
Demeanor	159
Influence Checks	159
Changing Demeanor	161
Being Influenced	161
Horror Factor	162
Companions & Mounts	162
Exposure	164
Downtime Actions	165
The Marketplace	166
Packs	167
Weapons	168
Firearms	169
Melee	172
Shields	173
Unarmed Techniques	173
Weapon Tags	175
Basic Weapon Workshop	176
Missiles	177
Armor	179
Armor Layers	180
Armor Weights	180
HEV, PEV, & OEV Variant Suits	181
Gear & Services	182
Utility Items	183
Vehicles	185
Important Notes on Vehicles	189
Enemies of the Errant Earth	190
Extras	190
Advanced Characters	191
Complete Characters	191
Advancement	192
Milestones	192
Numerical System	193
Deeds	193
Karma Benefits	194
Legacy Occupations	195
Appendix	200
Species Creation System	200
Robotica Cyberntica	209
Cybertroniks	216
Rumors & Oddities	217

4/25/2026 - Vehicle Update Version
?
WARNING!
	The fictional world of Errant Earth (?) is quite violent and deadly. It is an exotic realm where 
magic is as real as technology and demonic creatures plague humankind. 
	Some parents may find the violence and supernatural elements of the game inappropriate for 
young readers or players. We suggest parental discretion. 
	None of us at The SPRUG Workshop (?) condone , nor encourage, the Occult, the Practice of 
Magic, the use of drugs, or violence. 
 
	ThereÅfs something magical about that opening text crawl for me. Palladium Games, my dearly 
beloved Uncle Kev and company created one of the most fascinating settings IÅfve ever had the love of 
running and playing in. My story with RIFTS begins back when I first started playing TTRPGs in general, 
my affection for Warhammer Fantasy 2e, being recruited into a homebrewed Castles & Crusades 
campaign - twice, and even opening that book for the first time with Mike and Terry. I think I would be 
remiss if I didnÅft mention all of that original group of RIFTS players. The dozens of books, the hours of 
playing in that basement, and the calming walks home after it.
	ItÅfs nostalgic to me, a strange place for a strange time in my life. I think I was lucky, really lucky, 
for the people I knew and the time I had with them. Perhaps thatÅfs why RIFTS holds a special place in 
my heart. An appreciation for a time long gone. Though not to say I havenÅft stopped my love for 
RIFTS, I reference it frequently, terms have been lifted, and RIFTS 2 was always there as a funny 
stretch goal.
	I remember writing down RIFTS 2 when I adopted the name Notepad Anon. Years ago now. It 
was always in the back of my mind, each game a refinement to reach my ultimate goal of RIFTS 2. 
D20/100 was made for a game that I havenÅft thought about in a long while, it was refined by one 
obsession project to capture the heart, and further twisted and refined to get what I wanted. Metal 
Saviors? Please, that was just one step in this obsession. Though I think that leads into why I fear to 
work on RIFTS 2, now Errant Earth.
	Is this the refinement of it all? The last huzzah? Most likely this will be my last game before I 
take a job in a foreign country. So Errant Earth is perhaps a large-scale autobiography about 
nostalgia, inevitability, and look into the mind of a TTRPG Developer. I also get to add gratuitous 
writing masturbation for me - there will be nothing elegant about the lore of Errant Earth, it will be my 
mind on full display, its rules will be my hands, and its breath will be my life.
	If RIFTS is Uncle KevÅfs great hurrah, then perhaps Errant Earth will be the grand hurrah for the 
SPRUG Workshop. God help us all. 
?
False Hopes & Rising 
Temptation
Å@Å@Å@The Old World was lost in fire and brimstone. To most, that description is enough; to many 
more, they donÅft know more than that. The exact year, according to the calendars of the Old World, is 
2688?four hundred years since anything relevant could be recorded outside the few panicked death 
oaths by renegade soldiers, the explanations of why the Old World fell by new messiahs and would-be 
tyrants, and the occasional metal album from bands long dead.
Å@Å@Å@The final years of the Old World are marked by an apocalyptic tale?something that haunts 
every story told from the old logs. Nuclear annihilation caused a chain reaction that destroyed 
everything. One day they are, and the next, they are not. Piecing together the dark ages that followed 
is difficult; the savage heart of man met the death throes of the shining civilization that was. 
Information is sporadic, tales grow taller each time theyÅfre told, and the language drifts a letter at a 
time.
Å@Å@Å@The current year, in the region of the Great Lakes and little else, is FY 142. FermiÅfs Year is the 
traditional way to mark time, built into the frequent chugs of Stony PointÅfs clock that tells the time to 
the bellowing nuclear facility of the city. Perhaps it was luck that part of the EarthÅfs Blood?the most 
primal of energy?blew a gasket inside the plant. Perhaps it was fate that the Curators were robots 
without a care for the pressure or energy they now produced. It only took a century for a group in this 
broken world to establish a semblance of the Old World.
Å@Å@Å@The Point is the largest city in the region, built to feed off the energy of Stony Point and protect 
it. It grew further and further, inviting others to share the power for a cut of the crop. The city grew, 
and their Confederacy grew from Thunder Bay to the Pitt, with the waterways in their control. A 
Confederacy is built on trust, but when power is on the line, few are willing to part with it.
Å@Å@Å@The Coalition wishes to form a military union?one to protect the people from themselves and 
the world around them. Hate is their doctrine, rage is their ethos, and terror is their nature. To counter 
them, the Union has built up its forces of hopefuls and regulars, making war for the fate of the 
Confederacy as they dance in the ruins of it.
Å@Å@Å@The year is 2688, 142 after the founding of the Great Lakes Confederacy. And the world still 
seems not to have learned what hell is like.
Steel & Wires: Technology
	The Old World was destroyed at the height of its development. Fantastical designs and 
documents point toward what could only be described as fairy tales?flying cars, automated robotics, 
and a nearly limitless amount of resources for everyone to enjoy. Post-Scarcity would be the term 
used, but as with most things, it was built on the backs of the indentured and downtrodden. The haves 
and have-nots were the method by which control was kept and technology was manufactured.
	The technological dark age regressed a majority of humanity's achievements. The processes 
that once enabled the shining cities of the Old World have been replaced with ramshackle proxies and 
an inability to replicate the nuance behind them. Weapons and armor that are now seen as family 
heirlooms were mass-manufactured in the great?now abandoned?factory complexes, and 
communication could once reach across the world with little more than the strength of a radio signal.
	Technology has adapted to the New World, though?human ingenuity is nothing without its 
pride and stubbornness. While the deeper understanding of how the tech was developed or even 
created has been lost, the schematics of how to build it havenÅft. Fragmentary data, mixed with the 
mechanics of today, has created an influx of weapons, armor, and technology designed for the 
modern day rather than the sleek world that came before.
	Weapons and armor have seen the most development and resurgence, with entire companies 
and artisans dedicating their existence to creating the heaviest firepower and most sophisticated 
protection they can?sold to warlord kingdoms and disparate homesteaders alike. ItÅfs necessary, too: 
creatures from beyond the Tears can barely be scratched by rudimentary pipe pistols or crowbars, 
and so the arms race against the apocalypse begins anew.
Vehicles, power armor, and almost everything else have seen some influence from the need to 
militarize the societies that formed during the chaos that followed the collapse of the Old World? 
innovation brought about by conflict, no matter the age.
	Modern technology borrows heavily from the Old World, instead relying on bulkier and less 
efficient methods to produce and manufacture. With interference from more widespread 
infrastructure?Earthblood and other creatures?radio is the only reliable method to speak across 
vast distances. This has led to the control of communication itself: taking one of the radio towers that 
dot the Confederacy or anywhere else in the world is a sure way to hear what everyone is saying, and 
to control what they plan.
	Medically, the regression and subsequent renaissance have been complicated. In the luxurious 
high rises of Stony Point, all it takes is a trip to the medical facility for an Autodoc to diagnose, 
prescribe, and treat any injury someone may have. Further out, a doctor may be little more than a 
local herbalist. The farther one wanders, the less possible serious treatment becomes. The more 
artisanal the skill of doctoring, the more keeping others alive morphs into religious doctrine.
	The development and advancement of the modern world are prefaced by a golden age, a 
dark age that followed, and a drive to survive.

Inland Empire: Psychic 
Å@Å@Å@The mind is the most powerful organ in the human body, able to perform millions of tiny 
calculations in a moment that would shame most supercomputers. Though this is tempered by the 
reality that ÅgBreathingÅh and ÅgBlinkingÅh cut into the potential validity of getting more out of it.. The origin 
of Psychics are shrouded in half-truths and vague documentation from before the collapse of the Old 
World. Trusting those who research Psychoresonant Waves are debatable, most are Psychics 
themselves with an extensive history of being able to perceive and understand the power they wield. 
Historical records are few and far between, mostly being a combination of banal government 
documentation and rants from the unhinged.
Å@Å@Å@Psychics develop young, the most common being in teenagers going through puberty, their 
minds and bodies clicking together to manifest power they donÅft understand. Those who grow up 
around other Psychics are more likely to develop as one themselves, but Null Psychics are only really 
found around high-density psychic communities themselves. Formal training after their Awakening is a 
series of thoughtforms and exercises, trying to ensure that their mind doesnÅft collapse or making them 
believe that the voices in their head are anything but others around them. Though ÅgNatural PsychicsÅh 
born outside enclaves tend to have more of an ad hoc training, either going mad from the voices or 
adopting a disciplined regimen to manifest their power reliably.
Å@Å@Å@After fully developing, Psychics can be found in most levels of society in one way or another. 
Having someone who can read minds or shoot mental energy at their enemies can turn the tide of a 
conflict quickly. Though this doesnÅft mean they are trusted, well tuned Mentalists can read the surface 
thoughts of most people around them, open a secondary mental dialogue with themselves, and even 
possess a weakened mind. To know a Psychic is to learn how to trust someone at a deeper level than 
normal, or putting up the mental guards enough to not worry about trusting another. Though none 
dislike them more than Magicians. The two are one anotherÅfs natural counter, resisting the otherÅfs 
effects far easier than others - eliminating the MagicianÅfs magic forces them to rely on less civilized 
means to put the Psychic in the ground.
Å@Å@Å@Communities of Psychics tend to be small or focused in enclaves of larger settlements. 
Telepathic Psychics are able to communicate with one another wordlessly, creating an eerie silence 
across these districts as the normal bustling sense of conversation is replaced by short nods, off-hand 
snickers, and occasional bursts of verbal anger. These communities are also the only ones able to 
teach young Psychics reliably - which leads to Feral Psychics. ÅgFeral PsychicsÅh is a term to describe 
those who have taught themselves how to manifest their power, often in esoteric or alien methods. 
Dangerous Ferals are the chief reason distrust is as common as it is, but groups of Psychics are known 
to adopt Ferals to add to their breadth of knowledge and abilities to teach. 
Å@Å@Å@In the Great Lakes Confederacy, Stony Point has the largest community of psychics if only due 
to its size. NorthsideÅfs Beach has a sizable retreat of Psychics, though they are divided into different 
schools. The Statesmen are government trained and adopt more practical training regimen, being 
integral to the lawmen and bureaucracy of the Confederacy. The Kai is a doctrine of self-
actualization, becoming ascetics in an effort to both control and manifest their powers. The civil war 
has split these factions further, believing in different doctrines to guide their hand.
Å@Å@Å@ 
Arcana Mystica: Magic
	Magic is the art of using the Earthblood embedded in every person and projecting it outward. 
Earthblood by itself is the volatile substance in which the world is built upon and all matter originates 
from. The end of the Old World was caused by the precise strikes that caused the immense pressure 
of Earthblood to blow, causing the birth of Magic itself. The first magicians were simply born around 
the Earthblood Geysers that sprang up in the aftermath of the collapse and the opening of the Tears - 
their bodies now infused with raw potential energy with nowhere to go. Awakening Magic is a gamble 
depending on where one manages to do it - if they are isolated from others they may find themselves 
burning out before their first year or never understanding the full reason why they have so much 
manic energy. If they are in an environment to know, they are almost always taken away to train 
formally, becoming one of the many types and schools of Magicians out there.
	Awakening oneÅfs Magic is often from birth or soon after, though it has taken others late in their 
teenage years or even their 20s before any hint of the Spark is seen. The Spark is a term used by 
Magicians to recognize the potential in one another, though this may be an adopted term from the 
glimmering effect that oneÅfs aura produces. After developing the Spark, the MagicianÅfs power is 
unpredictable and is prone to firing off when they are stressed or in danger, often itÅfs manyÅfs first 
encounter with it as well. Depending on the Magician and the situation, the training may range 
anywhere from formal institutions that teach the fundamentals, master-apprentice relationships, to 
even little more than philosophical movements haphazardly adopted into becoming magical doctrine.
	Due to Magic being reliant on Earthblood, itÅfs malleable and can be shaped easily through the 
use of a Grimoire - the MagicianÅfs personal shorthand for manifesting their powers. Capable 
Magicians barely need to recite passages or focus themselves, though many more have met an early 
grave by a simple mispronunciation. A Grimoire is a collection of methods to focus and refine oneÅfs 
Magic, it could be an actual book that the Magician must carefully manage, a file on their wrist 
computer, or intricate tattoos on their body. Learning a MagicianÅfs Grimoire lets someone mimic their 
abilities, making protecting it the first thing that an apprentice will learn. After that, Magic Theorem 
and training is all that matters.
	The Magus is the standard term for a Magician, a well rounded and educated individual in their 
arts. Whether this is Algonquin Shamanistic Magic, Aeven Theory, or their own doctrine they have 
sworn themselves too colors and shapes how Magic actually functions. This training and philosophical 
standpoint lets the Magus to twist their magic to their own ends - resulting in further subschools and 
beliefs inside of an already diverse school of thought. As Earthblood is a foundational energy, the 
development of these heuristic shortcuts and mantras can have the same Grimoire manifest different 
spells depending on the Magus employing them. Of course radically different philosophies also crop 
up, using the chaotic force to their own ends.
	Naturally, Magicians loathe being around Psychics.
	The reasons differ, but the two have competing auras that encapsulate their power. Clashes 
break down into fist fights as their magic or psychic powers are rendered moot against one another. 
This has led to frequent Anti-Psychic or Anti-Magic groups that form around any political entity, even 
to the detriment of their own ideology. 
Å@Å@Å@The Great Lakes Confederacy employs Magicians in their ranks, most of them being trained in 
Southside (if only to be away from Psychics). Training tends to be sporadic to the heavily institutional 
Cedar Point Academy, with a few hundred students at any time. Though more Algonquin Shamans 
have begun venturing further into Stony Point to ply their trade. Magicians tend to be wanderers, 
drifting from place to place or working for mercenary companies needing some more magical 
firepower.


?
Earthblood & Unnatural Phenomenon
	The end of the world was punctuated by a mixture of nuclear hellfire and the last great hurrah 
from great Mother Earth - she bled. Earthblood has been a term being floated around for decades by 
explorers, scholars, and anyone with enough sense to know about it. In basic terms, Earthblood is the 
primal essence of existence, the first ÅgthingÅh that existed and the basis of all of reality. Pouring through 
records and recovering old data troves reveals the closest word to it would be Aether, but even that 
had properties to it, intangible, but ever present. In laymanÅfs language, Earthblood is the blood of the 
Earth keeping the heart, lungs, and brain of the world itself functional. Now that it was torn open, it 
spews out uncontrollably as the Errant Earth either dies squirming or clots itself one day.
	Until then, itÅfs a fact of life.
	Earthblood by its nature is ÅgMore.Åh ItÅfs an excess of life that flourishes everything around it, but 
twists and mangles it at the same time. Dense foliage overruns entire old cities, the water has a 
unnatural hue and invigorating taste, even the animals of yesterday have been enhanced into what 
used to be called ÅgMegafauna.Åh Rapid, divergent, uncontrolled evolution results around the various 
Earthblood wounds that appear. These wounds can be sporadic, an area may become saturated in 
Earthblood causing it to twist and change in a few months before it closes itself - whatever unnatural 
entities that spawned from it adapting to their new reality. This has led to Earthblood Geysers 
appearing in specialized spots - massive spewing bouts of raw energy that if left undirected creates 
an unnatural set of phenomenon and bizarre occurrences.
	One of the stranger expressions of the Earthblood are Leylines, vast stretches of Earthblood 
leaving a ÅgTrailÅh to the next Geyser. Most of the time they are undetectable except to the most 
hardened Magicians - but those who study the Earthblood and its effects can always see the subtle 
signs. This isnÅft implying Magicians donÅft cast an incorrect spell or not think about it, throwing them 
miles away with a bad teleportation or having a fireball explode in the middle of an empty field as the 
Leyline simply ÅgabsorbedÅh the magic to place it elsewhere. Leyline Walkers are able to manipulate 
these, throwing spells and themselves across the vast stretches of the Errant Earth on the highways of 
reality. 
	Why hasnÅft humanity or civilization crumbled in the aftermath of these ripping apart the old 
world? They did, for a time. Earthblood is natural though, something that flows perfectly fine on its 
own and doesnÅft struggle to create whatÅfs already natural. Humanity has perfected the art of the 
unnatural, preferring to tame the world than live in harmony with it. Crafted from alloys, false metals, 
and manufactured goods, itÅfs mused that humanity was the perfect opposing force to Earthblood. 
Raw Earthblood hates urbanized, metallic, or ÅgunnaturalÅh places - what power it can manifest there is 
little more than a flicker compared to one of their smallest open wounds. 
	This hasnÅft stopped humanity from harnessing this power, those exposed to it may have the 
spark of magic embedded in their souls, rapid onset mutations are often due to it, and even those who 
feed on the latent energy follow the wounds and ride the waves they create. One day humanity will 
need to live without this power, this raw expression of life that burns within the veins of the world, but 
today is not that day.
?
The Tears
Å@Å@Å@Earthblood isnÅft the only mysterious oddity that occurred, perhaps due to the influx of that raw 
energy and connections to other pockets of existence, lead to the Tears opening up. Tears are 
anomalies to all those except the wisest and more experienced, but the laymen know one thing - 
Tears cause others to come through. The difficulty of discussing Tears is due to the infinite realities 
that they open up to and the explanation others give for why. A Tear may open for day on the Errant 
Earth but be reported to be opened for a century on the other side, other times a glowing pillar of light 
that has been part of the natural landscape since the Collapse sporadically throws unfortunates into 
the world without a care. 
Å@Å@Å@Tears open a portal, often one way, to the Errant Earth from ÅgOtherÅh places. Sometimes other 
humans come through, displaced and mystified about the world, abducted gunslingers meet veterans 
from ancient wars, only to be hired together by a field agent from a different worldline entirely. But 
the ÅgExosÅh are the most common. Exo is part identifier, part slur, for displaced groups and societies 
from beyond a Tear. Some are alien in nature, a hyper developed society that danced across the 
cosmos only to find themselves lost in this foreign world. Others are more fantastical, straight out of a 
fairy tale as Aeven, Orcs, Lizardmen, and other creatures talk about their thousands of different 
worlds where their magic is used freely and the blade determines the future. 
Å@Å@Å@Those who have been stranded for years have adapted to their new home. Generations of 
their people are now becoming an indistinguishable part of the makeup of society. Elegant silver 
skinned Yashima artisans perfect their art pieces alongside animal eared shape changing Pucca from 
far off places. Prejudice still exists though - as it would if there were no Exos. Though the validity is 
already called to question. Periods of peace will be punctuated by an invasion by a foreign species, 
only held off through overwhelming firepower, bands of heroes, or heroic sacrifices. Other parts of the 
world have fallen entirely to a Tear opening up a hole to a nightmare dimension where things beyond 
color and reason linger, only for them to creep into a world of distorted shapes and incorrect 
vibrations that they seek to cleanse.
Å@Å@Å@The Errant Earth is home to many strangers. Whether they are friend or enemy is for the one 
holding the gun to decide. 

The Drifters
Å@Å@Å@Drifters are by their nature a transitory people - driven from their homes by either a burning 
wanderlust, fortunate circumstances, or the needs of others. Drifters wander, finding themselves in the 
Errant EarthÅfs many curiosities and problems. Many pursue higher ambitions, some may be simply to 
find a new home, others wish to find the ultimate payday, while few are attracted to the siren call of 
power that seems to reach out to them.
Å@Å@Å@Drifters are never quite at home anywhere - strangers in a strange land that band together not 
necessarily out of obligation or desire, but mutual protection. One may dislike the hulking brute who 
canÅft speak their language well and drools after any meat, but appreciating them ripping a raging 
mutant in half is always good. 
Å@Å@Å@
Great Lakes Confederacy
	 The formation of the Great Lakes Confederacy began when the Fermi Brotherhood formally 
established the community around what would gradually be known as Stony Point. Stony Point is a 
nuclear reactor in which a Earthblood Wound opened up in, rather than cause damage or mutate the 
surroundings, the immortal and robotic caretakers simply integrated it into the system and spiked 
power output to ludicrous levels. The Fermi Brotherhood began exploiting the power and eventually 
Stony Point became a town, then a city, then the sprawling metropolis it is today.
	The nominal head of the Confederacy is the Council of Seven, ten members democratically 
elected to manage the day-to-day operations alongside the Lower Chambers of a hundred different 
individuals with some democratic seats and other established seats for important groups in society. As 
Stony Point grew it reached out to other communities in the area, offering power and their expertise 
in exchange for whatever they could offer. The first major alliance was with Chigeon, the mutant and 
exo filled community in the ruins of Old Chicago - namely the Grand Diocese of Chigeon and the 
Regent of St. Peter. Expanding further and further until most of the Great Lakes Region had some kind 
of affiliation with Stony Point and the Lower Chambers became further bloated with alliance 
members and allies to the Fermi Brotherhood and the power plant. 
	This lasted for around fifty years before tensions began to arise - different members of the 
Confederacy began accusing others of Ågtaking more than their dueÅh and after the Canadian War a 
decade ago, all civility broke down and the Confederacy was split between the Coalition and the 
Union.
	The Coalition is based around Saint Marie on the border of the Canadians - originally a 
militarized society, they saw the worst fighting of the Canadian War and they gradually became 
disenfranchised by the ÅgWeakÅh further south. The Coalition boasts a strong military and allies within 
Stony Point itself - their continued war against ÅgThe OthersÅh has turned to fascist rhetoric. They are led 
by Grand Marshal Furio, a dour and angry man who has grand ambitions of turning the Confederacy 
into his own personal empire. Though Furio is often undermined by his own minions trying to earn his 
favor, earn their own petty ranks and honors, or trying to usurp the Grand Marshal himself. Without this 
inefficiency at the top ranks of society, the Coalition could probably sweep the Confederacy entirely - 
but holding it would be a different story?
	The UnionÅfs base of operation is Buffalo Falls, though their allies take up a majority of the Lake 
Ontario region as well as those few who remain affiliated with them in Stony Point. What the Union 
lacks in conventional military they make up for in a host of artists, exos, psychics, and ÅgOthersÅh that are 
demeaned by others. Not to say that the Union is unified in any way. Different groups rally together to 
oppose the Coalition, not to support one another. Haphazard Militias are more likely to fight among 
themselves than lead a consistent fight against their ideological enemy. Leading to the Union 
leadership employing adventurers and drifters to do a majority of the work.
	The future of Stony Point and the Confederacy is in the balance - ChigeonÅfs mounting unrest 
between the two forces are reaching a boiling point, skirmishes in the East are escalating into full 
blown battles, and hungry eyes of the enemies of the Confederacy seem to seeing if this moment of 
weakness is the time to decapitate their ancient enemy. 

New World Bible - A Collection of Notes about the Great Lakes Confederacy
Åú	Algonquin Tribes are welcomed as part of the Confederacy, though they arenÅft all affiliated 
with them. Most keep to themselves in their own communities and beliefs. 
Åú	Chigeon itself is divided between the Arbiters, the ÅgHumans and Other Respectable 
IndividualsÅh of the city who fight in the streets against the New Order, a group of radical Exo, 
Deviant Mutants, and ÅgFreaksÅh who want equal rights for everyone by gunpoint.
Åú	ChigeonÅfs current Papal Regent is Carmerlengo IV, a pureblood mutant who is favorable 
toward both the Union and Coalition for different reasons.
Åú	Due to the abundance of power from the plant, energy weapons are used frequently among 
the Confederate Armies. 
Åú	Most trade comes from the rivers and lakes, with the conflict taking up major ports, progress 
has started to slow in that regard.
Åú	Stony Point has no allegiance to the Union or Coalition - instead acting as neutral grounds for 
the conflict. Whoever ÅgwinsÅh the war will be able to reshape the Confederacy in their image. 
Åú	The Confederacy doesnÅft discriminate on any basis - Exo, Magician, Psychic, etc. But 
individual communities inside the Confederacy do.
Åú	The Confederate Army is a ragtag organization of militias, the Canadian War helped 
demonstrate the efficiency of the system and led to the creation of the Coalition with ÅgActual 
Military ProfessionalismÅh over the current draft system. The actual army now is mostly 
stationed around Stony Point and Chigeon on defense. 
Åú	The Fermi Brotherhood is officially neutral in the conflict, managing the Power Plant being 
their primary goal. By themselves the Brotherhood is half trade union and half religious 
organization, most not even being trained technicians or engineers, just those trained on how 
to maintain the power plant.
Åú	The two dominant languages inside the Confederacy are American and Algonquin - there 
are others but tend to be practiced inside their own communities.
Åú	With the fighting, banditry and other ÅgmalevolentÅh forces have begun operating more in the 
open. Monsters that used to be taken care of are now running amok and deserters are taking 
to the roads to exact tolls on anyone unfortunate enough to be in the area.
Åú	ÅgThe Canadian WarÅh was against a savage group of tech barbarians from the Deep North 
that came down to claim land and plunder, they were pushed back beyond the border - but 
ÅgThe Savage CanadianÅh is still seen as the default.

Confederate Records - The Great Lakes Confederacy & You
The Confederacy may seem a bit light on content, but itÅfs mostly an open ended area that allows 
the GM and Players to add things to Errant Earth without breaking too much. The conflict and 
problems can also be slotted into a majority of places in the world. If you want the Everglade 
Confederacy with a Naval Coalition versus Backwoods Floridian Union, then go for it. The concepts 
are adaptable and easy to mold elsewhere. 
?
Drifting Vagabonds
Å@Å@Å@Errant Earth is a roleplaying game about the adventures and struggles of a disparate group of 
Drifters in a wild and twisted Earth far after the Collapse destroyed it. With the opening of the Tears 
and Earthblood Geysers - high technology, powerful magic, weird psychics, and other Exos that find 
themselves on the Errant Earth, the struggle to survive mixes with the strange and wonderful from 
places-beyond-places.
	A group of Players, or PL, will become a set of Drifters. These men and women find themselves 
wandering the Errant Earth in search of their own ends - whether this is fame, fortune, destiny, or the 
will to make a difference is up to them. They will need to manage their resources, allies, and skills in the 
field to make their mark, or they may end up joining many who could not. One of these players will be 
the Game Master, or GM. As the Game Master, their role is to be the narrator of events and act on 
behalf of the ensemble cast the Drifters will encounter in peace and war. They will place challenges 
and situations in front of the Drifters, forcing these wayward children of the apocalypse to overcome 
or succumb to them. 
	Errant Earth uses the D20/100 System and is played with a full set of dice from D4 to D20. 
Whenever a Drifter attempts an action with a chance of failure or is in direct opposition to another, 
they will perform a Check to see if they succeed or fail. The GM will declare the Check to be an 
Attribute or Skill Check, but a clever Drifter may propose alternatives to the situation they find 
themselves in.
 
	Attribute Checks are called when the Drifter must rely on brute forcing the situation or relying 
on their personal abilities rather than any formal training. They will take a twenty-sided die, or D20, 
and attempt to roll under their Attribute.
	If they roll under their Attribute Score, they are successful and manage to bypass the situation. 
If they roll over their Attribute Score, they fail and suffer the consequences. 

A Drifter needs to pull themselves up on a ledge, they roll against the Power Attribute to pull 
themselves up. Failure has them struggle to climb up and waste time in the attempt.

Å@Å@Å@Skill Checks are called when the Drifter is using their training or skills to attempt to overcome a 
problem. They will take two ten-sided dice (d10) and roll them together. One die will record the 10's 
place while the other records the 1's place  - this is called making a Percentile, or D100, roll.
	If the Drifter rolls under their Skill, they are successful and manage to work out how to solve the 
situation. if they roll over their Skill, they fail and suffer complications that may arise. 

A Drifter is scouting the nearby woodland area, they'll be rolling a Wilderness Survival check. With 
their Wilderness Survival at 43, they manage to score a 12, succeeding at the Check.

?
Opposed Checks
	Whenever the Drifter is being directly opposed by another individual or group, both parties will 
be making a Check to determine the victor. Both groups will be making the same type of Check unless 
specified, and whoever is victorious wins the day. It is entirely possible for both sides to emerge 
victorious, in this case, whoever has the highest result will manage to overcome their opponent. For 
example, if a Drifter rolls a 43 and succeeds, if their opponent rolls a 42 or less, no matter if they 
succeed or not, they will still lose the competition.
Å@Å@Å@If both sides fail their Check, they will roll again with a -2 / -10% until one either runs out of their 
ability to act or someone manages to succeed. If both parties are particularly skilled or their Attributes 
are large, they will use the 20/100 Rule instead. If one or both parties exceed 20 in Attributes, they will 
both apply a penalty until the highest Attribute is a 20 and then roll. In addition, if one or both parties 
exceed 100 in a Skill, they will apply a penalty until it is only 100.
 
Two Drifters are locked in an arm wrestling 
match, both roll their Power Attribute. One Drifter 
successfully rolls a 5 and the other a 19 - the 
Drifter with 19 fails the Check and loses the 
competition.
Two Drifters are competing against one another 
in a race. Both will roll their Ground Vehicle 
Piloting Skill. Both of the Drifters succeed at their 
Check, but one rolls a 23 and the other a 32 - the 
32 wins.
 
A Drifter is challenged to a drinking contest with a 
Mutant with Supernatural Hardiness of 23, while 
they only have a 15. The Mutant imposes a -3 to 
both their own and the DrifterÅfs Hardiness (20 vs 
12) before the Opposed Check begins. The Drifter 
rolls an 11, but the Mutant scores a 16 and drinks 
them under the table after a few rounds. 
A Drifter is attempting to defeat a rival in a 
musical contest - they have a Musical Instrument 
Skill of 125 and their opponent has 150. Both incur 
the -50 Penalty for a 75 vs 100 Skill Check. The 
Drifter scores a 68 while their opponent manages 
to roll a 13 - the Drifter successfully beats the 
superior foe, if only barely. 


The Wayward Notes: Combat	
During Combat, the Drifters will be making D20 
Checks to hit their enemies, rather than rolling 
under, combat in Errant Earth and the D20/100 
System is against a Target Number, requiring 
the Drifter to roll over to beat it. This is 
expanded out and thoroughly explained in the 
Combat Chapter. 

Confederate Records: Rounding
All instances of Rounding will be rounded up, so 
2.5 would be 3, with 2.3 also being 3. If this isnÅft 
the case, it will be noted.

Saves
	During their encounters on the Errant 
Earth, the Drifters will occasionally need to 
protect themselves from threats that are not 
immediately physical. A "Save" is an Attribute 
Check that allows the Drifter to resist the 
effects of certain abilities used on them.
	If the Save is Successful, the effect is 
mitigated or halved in effectiveness - if the 
Save Fails then the Drifter experiences the full 
consequences. 
Difficulty Rating
	Situations on the Errant Earth can be hectic and often dangerous, whenever a complication or 
boon is affecting the Drifter they will be using a Difficulty Rating. Difficulty Ratings are bonuses and 
penalties applied to the Drifter's Check should they attempt it. These are always considered to be 
"exterior" factor, often related to the environment, other people, or the situation in front of them rather 
than their own personal skill.
Å@Å@Å@Difficulty Ratings are judged as "One" - meaning that if the Drifter has a +30% ease, a -20% later 
on would make the final calculation a +10% instead. 
Å@Å@Å@
Difficulty
Modifier
Difficulty
Modifier
Pathetic
+30% / +6
Hellish
-30% / -6
Easy
+20% / +4
Hard
-20% / -4
Routine
+10% / +2
Difficult
-10% / -2

Defaulting
	Whenever a Drifter does not have a Skill appropriate to the 
situation, they may instead attempt to Default to one of their 
Attributes. When Defaulting, the Drifter will multiply the appropriate 
Attribute by the current Difficulty of the Check. They will then make a 
Skill Check instead of the Attribute Check.
	For example, if a Drifter is Defaulting to an Attribute of 12 with 
only Average Complexity, they will need to make a Skill Check with a 
Target Number of 24 (12 Attribute x 2 Complexity).
	Not every Skill may have the Drifter Default, the Game Master 
has the final say on what is, and is not, appropriate for the Drifter to 
attempt a Default Check on. If the Drifter does succeed at a Defaulted 
Skill Check, the Success should be less ÅgknowhowÅh and more related to 
either luck or it being the minimum viable success. Failing a Defaulted 
Check is often a similar, or more grandiose failure due to not knowing 
what's actually going wrong. 

Complexity
Multiplier
Pathetic
x4
Easy
x3
Routine
x2
Difficult
x1
Hard
? 
Hellish
?

The 99/00 & Skills Over 100%
	Whenever the Drifter is making a Skill Check, a roll of 99 or 100 will always result in Failure, no 
matter how high the Skill is. This represents the quirks of fate interfering with the Drifter's plans, such 
as unexpected complications or unlucky happenstance. Skills can reach over 100%, meaning that they 
can only fail with the 99/00, but they will be able to blunt any complications that may occur to 
maintain their two-percent margin of error. 
Damage Scaling [M6]
	Errant Earth is considered to be an M6 Setting. This means it is a Megacapable Setting with 
Mega Damage (MD) being recorded normally and potentially lethally. If the Drifters were to ever take 
Giga or Ultra Damage, they will not record it and instead be immediately vaporized or annihilated by 
the titanic attack.

(S)tandard Damage
(M)ega Damage
(G)iga Damage
(U)ltra Damage
1
100
10,000
1,000,000

	The [6] represents the six stages that Attributes may be at and the potential they can grow 
into. Mortal, Augmented, Mechanical, Supernatural, Exalted, and Divine Attributes represent a 
combination of raw potential as well as the source of the strength of the Attribute in general. If there is 
ever a tie in an Attribute or Skill Check - the Character with the superior Attribute Potential will 
automatically win. These may also feed into other aspects depending on the Attribute being effected 
and their uses.

Max Attribute Potential
Mortal
Augmented
Mechanical
Supernatural
Exalted
Divine
18
20
22
24
26
30

The Wayward Notes	
Throughout the Errant Earth Rulebook, The 
Wayward Notes will provide gameplay notes 
and examples when appropriate. 

New World Bible
The New World Bible is a set of notes and 
situations recorded by the explorers, 
vagabonds, and other researchers of the world. 
This contains helpful notes of the Errant Earth 
and potentially beyond.

Confederate Records
When the Game Designer is speaking to the 
reader, the Confederate Records will be used. 
Mr. Tarn is notorious for writing inane notes 
down.
?
Drifter Creation
	The Errant Earth is host to a plethora of souls from all walks of life. The path of the Drifter 
doesn't discriminate and many find themselves taking up the wayward lifestyle for their own reasons. 
The quintessential Drifter is a wanderer, someone who rolls into a community to do some work before 
leaving again. The term has morphed and changed over the years, some taking it as a mark of pride 
of their nomadic lifestyle, others viewing it as an demeaning insult to their new situation.
	Regardless of the reason why they are drifting, each one has the knowhow to survive and will 
be making a name for themselves - whether they like to or not. 

Attributes
	Attributes represent a set of basic qualifications for the Drifter and their natural perspective on 
their lifestyle after they have begun their new life. These are intrinsic parts of the Drifter and will 
inform large parts of their actions, choices, and abilities throughout their allies. Attributes will rarely 
change after they have been determined, only being modified after augmentation, ATB (Attribute 
Bonus) Skills, or relying on the quirks of fate that seem to follow them. Of course, oneÅfs Attributes may 
also fall due to horrific injury or other debilitating effects.
	To determine one's Attributes, the Drifter will take the three dice gained from their 
Backgrounds and Occupations - rolling them together to determine their final result. The natural 
Mortal limit of Attributes is 18, a quintessential person with heroic disposition. Though Attributes can 
also dip a low as 3 normally, representing severe handicaps or issues affecting the Drifter's personal 
life.
	Errant Earth has six scales to represent how modified a Drifter is in regards to their Attributes. 
These six scales represent how high the Drifter's Attribute potential is, as well as how they appear to a 
majority of others.

Attribute Scale
ATB
Description
Mortal
1 - 18
Perfectly normal Attribute, nothing too dramatic about it.
Augmented
1 - 20
The Attribute has been modified, improving it fundamentally and 
internally.
Mechanical
1 - 22
The Attribute has cybernetic enhancements to further its potential.
Supernatural
1 - 24
The Attribute is blatantly supernatural and almost paradoxical in its use.
Exalted
1 - 26
The Attribute is impressive and nearly impossible to beat conventionally.
Divine
1 - 30
The Attribute is second only to divine beings that it takes its name from.
?

Anima (ANM)

Bravado (BRV)
 

 
Description

Description
The power of the DrifterÅfs soul and their reserves 
of Åginner strengthÅh that allows them to push 
through disasters and problems. High Anima may 
indicate an Ågold soulÅh - wise beyond their years.. 

The DrifterÅfs sense of self, appearance, and 
charisma allows them to make friends and 
influence people. A high Bravado may indicate a 
natural confidence or strong personality.
Those who Favor Anima. . .

Those who Favor Bravado . . .
Psychics, Witch Hunters, Egoists, Philosophers, 
Martial Artists

Recruiters, Performers, Journalists, and Shock 
Jockeys

Comprehension (COM)

Finesse (FIN)
 

 
Description

Description
The DrifterÅfs awareness and natural knack for 
finding the truth in different matters, be it 
practical or scholarly. Impressive Comprehension 
is shown by being perceptive and naturally quick-
witted.

The DrifterÅfs agility, dexterity, and hand-eye 
coordination rolled into one to act fast, and move 
quicker. An excellent Finesse often manifests as a 
lithe build and quick hands with nearly everything.
Those who Favor Comprehension. . .

Those who Favor Finesse. . .
Scientists, Naturalists, Wilderness Scouts, and 
Explorers

Thieves, Technicians, Getaway Drivers, and 
Sharpshooters

Hardiness (HRD)

Power (POW)
 

 
Description

Description
The DrifterÅfs natural endurance, resistance, and 
constitution in the face of injury, trauma, and 
horrible fates that befall them. Hardy Drifters are 
easy to spot, plenty of scars to prove it.

The DrifterÅfs physical strength and force behind 
their punches, ability to use and manifest their 
strength properly. A developed Power is shown 
through muscular builds and natural bulk.
Those who Favor Hardiness. . .

Those who Favor Power. . .
Boxers, Sappers, Cybernetic Junkies, 
Commandos, and Bouncers

Teamsters, Marines, Miners, and Soldiers

Speed (SPD)

Willpower (WIL)
 

 
Description

Description
The DrifterÅfs raw speed while moving as fast as 
they can as well as their innate reaction time. 
Those who have high Speed are quick on their 
feet and sometimes jittery.

The DrifterÅfs mental strength and reserves, 
allowing them to resist failing morale and despair. 
Those with a decisive Willpower are courageous 
to a fault and refuse to back down easily.
Those who Favor Speed. . .

Those who Favor Willpower. . .
Athletes, Couriers, and Mascots

Clergymen, Lawyers, Magicians, and Officers
?

The Wayward Notes	- Attributes at 0
If by some haphazard twist of fate or terrible fortune a Drifter were to have a 0 in an Attribute, they 
are considered unable to be played due to a tragic defect that makes them impossible to continue.

Anima
The DrifterÅfs soul has been shattered beyond repair, they are a shell of 
themselves and can barely perform basic tasks let alone take care of 
themselves.
Bravado
The Drifter slips into a waking coma, unable to express themselves outside 
grunts and the occasional flailing arm motion - they have lost their sense of self.
Comprehension
The Drifter is in a dreamlike daze, unable to understand or comprehend whatÅfs 
around them. If they can speak, itÅfs in garbled words and jumbled sounds.
Finesse
The Drifter is unable to move themselves correctly, their hands shake violently, 
they can barely stand on their own unassisted as their body is rendered 
worthless.
Hardiness
The Drifter is so sickly that any exposure to hostile environments (i.e. all of them) 
would result in immediate organ failure or worse.
Power
The DrifterÅfs strength is sapped, they are unable to support themselves or use 
their limbs in any meaningful way.
Speed
The Drifter is unable to move at all, what little they can muster is involuntary 
spasms or heavily assisted with someone else.
Willpower
The Drifter has simply given up, surrendered to the dread and entered a coma, 
unable to be woken by anything less than a miracle.

?
Skills
	Skills represent a host of knowledge, talents, and abilities that a Drifter has developed or picked 
up over the years through their education, life experiences, and natural development. Each Drifter has 
a number of Skills determined by their Backgrounds and Occupations, split up Core, Trained, Hobby, 
Perfect, ATB, Combat Training, Weapon Proficiencies, and Combat Specialties.
	Core, Trained, and Hobby Skills are the sliding scale of in depth information of focus the Drifter 
has placed on different skills. Core Skills are fundamental to the DrifterÅfs life and training, developing 
faster than their Trained Skills. Hobby Skills develop slowly, and sometimes not at all, as they are 
picked up aspects rather than developed talents. Perfect Skills are those which are innate to the 
Drifter and nearly impossible to fail unless in dire circumstances or extreme complications - such as 
being able to speak their native language or know about where they grew up.
Å@Å@Å@These Skills follow the same format with a [Base Skill Value] + [Development]. 
Å@Å@Å@The Base Skill indicates what the Skill begins at when it is first opened by the Drifter. For 
example, the Investigation Skill has a Base Skill Value of 35%. The Development of the Skill is the 
percentage next to it that indicates its growth every time the Drifter increases their Character Level. 
The Investigation Skill has a Trained Development of +7% - so if a Drifter has the Investigation Skill at 
35% and increases their Character Level, they would now have 42% as their Investigation Skill. 
Å@Å@Å@During Drifter Creation, each of the Drifters will apply their Development when their Skill is first 
opened up . If the Drifter opens a Skill up later through either spending Karma, Learning Opportunities, 
or Education - they will begin at the Base Skill Value and begin improving the next Character Level.
Å@Å@Å@Core, Trained, and Hobby Skills will indicate the rate of development for the Drifters. Core 
Skills develop the fastest, with Hobby Skills developing the slowest. Improving and refining Skills later 
on, such as promoting a Hobby Skill into a Trained Skill, would improve the Development but not make 
up Åglost experienceÅh of previous levels. After a Skill reaches 100%, Development slows dramatically, as 
the Drifter is no longer learning how to improve themselves, but instead refining their craft to avoid or 
mitigate potential disasters. 
Å@Å@Å@ATB, Combat Training, Weapon Proficiencies, and Combat Specialties do not have a [Base 
Skill] or [Development], instead when they acquire this Skill they will have all of the benefits it entails 
immediately. ATB, or Attribute Bonus, Skills improve the DrifterÅfs Attributes through rigorous 
commitment or focus, but do little else outside of it. Combat Training is how skilled the Drifter is in 
combat, directly correlating to a number of Combat Actions they have. Possessing a Weapon 
Proficiency allows a deeper understanding of particular weapons for special combat actions. A 
Combat Speciality is an art that the Drifter has developed to improve their combat ability, but not 
directly correlate to an increase in actions or immediate weapon benefits. 

The Wayward Notes	- ÅgUse AsÅh
The Game Master may allow the Drifter to use one skill ÅgasÅh another. Most Skills do not allow this by 
their nature - but various mechanics and other details may assist. If this is the case, it will either half 
the value of the Skill for the attempt or take a penalty of -20 / -40 / -60% as normal.

	During the DrifterÅfs life and their adventures 
on the Errant Earth, they may begin to internalize 
deeper meanings to their Skills and start applying 
Skill Tags. A Skill Tag is a refinement of the SkillÅfs 
abilities and nature, improving them or allowing 
the Drifter to perform tricks to keep them ahead 
or enable them to push beyond their limits.
	Each Skill may take as many Skill Tags that 
are applied to them, with each possessing a 
different function. Particular Drifters may even be 
a master in several Skills with all of the proper Skill 
Tags and abilities.

Skill Tag
ABV.
Description
Aced
AC
The Drifter adds +25% to the Skill, +3% 
Development, and +1% after they reach 
100%
Assuranc
e
AS
The Skill will only fail with a 100 instead 
of a 99 or 100.
Fated
FA
When the Skill rolls ÅgDubsÅh (44,55,66,etc) 
they have a Critical Result for an 
enhanced effect .
Reliable
RE
The Drifter may reroll a Failed Check 
and accept the second result.
Take20
T20
If the Drifter is Safe, Focused, and has 
the Time - they may ÅgTake 20Åh for the 
Check to treat it as if they rolled a 20 .


The Wayward Notes - Special Benefits of Skill Acquisition
Certain Backgrounds or Occupations may possess a Skill written as [Skill (+10%)] or similar. This 
indicates that the Drifter will add an immediate +10% bonus to the Base Skill Value when they open 
the Skill. 
Later on through dedication, education, or other Ågless savoryÅh techniques the Drifter may gain a flat 
bonus to a Skill as well. This is added directly onto the Base Skill Value. 

The Wayward Notes - Open Skills
An Open Skill refers to a broad skill set that covers many different fields. Rather than have an 
individual entry for each of them, an Open Skill may take its place. When the Drifter takes an Open 
Skill, they will define what it actually is for purposes of refinement. The Natural Sciences is an Open 
Skill - allowing the Drifter to have Natural Sciences: Biology or Natural Sciences: Chemistry based on 
their preferences. The Drifter may take multiple of the same type of Open Skill if they wish, allowing 
them to be multi-disciplined inside of a singular field. 
The Game Master has the final call in regards to what are appropriate Open Skills.
?

The Wayward Notes	- Common Knowledge
Throughout the game there may be moments when ÅgCommon KnowledgeÅh Checks come into 
play, often small questions that can be immediately answered by those Ågin the know". A Drifter has 
a Common Knowledge ÅgScoreÅh equal to the Rank of Relevant Backgrounds, Occupations, and the 
10Åfs Place of their Skill that is most appropriate. Common Knowledge does not require a roll or it to 
be even strictly calculated - it is a shorthand.

0
1 - 4
5 - 7
8 - 10
11 - 15
16+
Nothing
Simple Facts
Complex Facts
Trivia
Industry Knowledge
Insider Knowledge
ÅgThe Crimson Crow is a Big 
Gun.Åh
ÅgThe Crimson Crow 
Revolver uses special parts, 
itÅfs hard to repair.Åh
ÅgThe Crimson Crow needs 
its chamber and barrel 
cleaned at the same time.Åh
ÅgThe Crimson Crow is 
technically the third variant 
of the same type of gun.Åh
ÅgCrimson Crows made out 
of Texas, though they get 
distributed everywhere.Åh
ÅgCrimson Crow uses the 
same parts as everyone, 
they just claim that to make 
them more expensive.Åh


Confederate Records - Skill Development Index
The Skill Development Index is a personal system to determine how Skills are built using the Base 
Skill Value, Development, and such. Every Skill is placed on an imaginary 4x4 matrix of Difficulty of 
the Skill and the Learning Complexity of the Skill. The Difficulty is how immediately complicated or 
strange the skill is - Electronic Warfare has a Base Skill Value of 20% due to it being a specialist skill. 
The Learning Complexity is how gradual one can develop and learn about the Skill over time, the 
Disguise Skill is easy to learn (+7% Trained) due to its nature.
Thus a Skill thatÅfs ÅgSimple to learn, Hard to MasterÅh (Simple Specialist Skill) would be 50% + 3% (50% 
Base Skill Level + 3% Development at Trained).

Simple
Advanced
Specialist
Lost
50%
35%
20%
5%

Basic
(Core / Trained / Hobby / Post 100%)
Complex
(Core / Trained / Hobby / Post 100%)
Specialist
(Core / Trained / Hobby / Post 100%)
Esoteric
(Core / Trained / Hobby / Post 100%)
+12 / 7 / 3 / 3 %
+10 / 5 / 1 / 2 %
+8 / +3 / 0 / 0 %
+4 / 0 / 0 / 0 %


The Wayward Notes	- Standard Skills
Standard Skills come by default of every Drifter, not 
needing to be written down unless the PL wishes.

Åú	Language: Regional (Perfect) - The GLC has this 
as American though a PC may choose Algonquin
Åú	Lore: Home Region (+20% / Core) - Selecting a city 
or region where the Drifter calls home. For the 
GLC, this can be Stony Point, Bay City, Saint Marie, 
Chigeon, or Lakeside. 
Åú	Relevant Campaign Skills - These could be 
universal Lores, Trades, or Information that fits the 
campaign that the GM wishes.

Cultural and Domestic Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Appraisal
Ability to appraise good and understand 
value.
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Cooking
Ability to prepare food and serve it.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Domestic Work
Ability to perform basic domestic duties such 
as cleaning, housework, and maintaining a 
home.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Language (Open)
Ability to speak a language of choice.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Literacy (Open)
Ability to read and write a language of 
choice.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Lore (Open)
Ability to understand and be knowledgeable 
about a certain subject.
50%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Memetics
Understanding the current ideological trends, 
imagery, and cultural icons.
50%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Trade (Open)
Ability to practice a dedicated trade or have 
insider information about the industry.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Trinkets
Ability to shape simple materials into art 
pieces or enable them for other uses.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Wardrobe
Ability to understand latest fashion trends, 
making an appearance of dignity and honor.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%

Open Skill Examples
Language
Literacy
Lore
Trade
American 
(Spoken in most of the greater North American area)
Burger American
(A simplified version of the American alphabet)
Great Lakes Confederacy
(Knowledge of the surrounding area of the Confederacy)
Plumber
(Nothing is handier than being a plumber)
Algonquin
(Mostly spoken by the native tribes, easy to learn for Exos)
Southside Script
(The official script for the Cedar Point School of Magic)
Chigeon
(History and updates from Chigeon and the Tear)
Electrician
(Electrical work is tough work, advanced varieties more so.)
Canuck
(Spoken in the deep north past the Claybelt line)
Ecclesiastical Latin
(The written tongue of the North American Papacy)
Tear Scholastics
(In Depth knowledge of how Tears function)
Bounty Hunter
(Understanding of hunter targets, payments, and guilds)
Trade V
(The newest trade tongue that others are trying to make)
Binaric-26
(Able to efficiently read Binaric-26 for old Robots)
Riverliners
(Gambling Syndicate operating around the Confederacy)
Fermi Plant Operator
(Member of the Fermi Brotherhood to maintain Stony 
Point)

New World Bible - Languages & You
The more things change, the more things stay 
the same. Language not being one of them. 
400 Years since the end of the world has 
morphed dialects to something hard to 
compare. ÅgAmericanÅh and ÅgEnglishÅh have 
deviated from one another to the point of 
being little more than basic comparisons. 
Though in this new world of ours languages 
such as Algonquin, various Exo Languages, and 
even some more secretive trade tongues 
among Magicians and Psychics. 

Electronics and Mechanics Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
3D Modeller 
Understanding how to draft Standard 
Template Files (STF) and work on art pieces.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Collapse Mechnika
Knowledge of Pre-Collapse Technology and 
how to actually fix it.
5%
+10%
+5%
+0%
Computer Use
Knowledge of how to use computer terminals 
and write basic programs.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Cybernetics
Understanding the fundamentals to design, 
repair, and fix cybernetic pieces.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Demolitions
Ability to produce and detonate explosive 
compounds and substances.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Earth Mechanics (Open)
Ability to fix, refine, build, and perform 
repairs on various vehicles and instruments.
50%
+10%
+5%
+0%
Exo Mechanics
Deeper understanding of how any of this Exo 
Stuff actually works. 
5%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Radio
Practice and skill with radio operations, 
repair, and tuning.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Robotics
Functional knowledge of how to design, 
repair, and maintain robotic entities.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%


Open Skill Examples
Earth Mechanics
Aeronautic Vehicles
Aquatic Vehicles
Civic Engineering 
Industrial Equipment
Terrestrial Vehicles
Vertical Armored Cavalry


The Wayward Notes - Field vs Garage Repairs
When a Drifter needs to make repairs they will either be repairing in 
the field or at a garage. 
Field Repairs are ÅgDefaultÅh assuming the Drifter has the appropriate 
tools on them. If they donÅft they may still attempt with a [-40%]. 
Successful Field Repairs restore +1d6 Hull Damage.
Garage Repairs are when all the necessary supplies, tools, and space is 
available for the mechanic. They may add +40% to their Skill or 
attempt a similar Skill Check but restore +3d6 Hull Damage.


?
Espionage and Rogue Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Concealment
Ability to conceal objects on their person.
50%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Disguise
Ability to masquerade and hide among 
others in costume.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Forgary
Ability to fake documents, create false 
documents, or spot forgeries.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Gambling
Ability and knowledge of gambling games, 
techniques, and strategies.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Intelligence Gathering
Ability to gather information from sources 
and others with ease.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Investigation
Ability to find secrets and understand 
problems from a situation.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Lockpicking
Ability to pick locks and crack safes.
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Search
Ability to pat down individuals and scour 
rooms for small objects.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Sleight of Hand
Ability to quickly sneak objects out of pockets 
and swipe objects without others knowing.
50%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Stealth
Ability to sneak around in the shadows and 
not be spotted.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Streetwise
Ability to understand and comprehend street 
based situations, problems and subcultures.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%

Medical Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Cyberdoctoring
Ability to treat cyberborgs and those who 
have biomechanical parts.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Exodoctoring 
Ability to treat Exos with their unique 
biology.
5%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Field Medicine
The Ability to treat individuals without full 
equipment in the field.
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Holistic Medicine
Simplistic medicine made from natural 
herbal remedies and abilities. 
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Medtech
Knowledge of how to operate advanced 
medical technology and devices
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Psychology
Ability to understand anotherÅfs mental 
state.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Traditional Medicine
The Ability to treat individuals with severe 
injuries with professional medicine.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Veterinary
The Ability to treat and cure animals of both 
large, small, domestic, and feral varieties. 
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%

Military Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Armory
Maintenance of Weapons and Armor in the 
field.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Command Structure
The Ability to understand and know various 
aspects of the military command structure.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Dueling
The knowledge of the nuances and 
strategies of dueling culture, be it with 
swords, guns, or unofficial methods.
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Electronic Warfare
The Ability to perform E-Warfare and detect 
its effects in the field.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Fortification
The Ability to maintain, fortify, and protect a 
single area from harm.
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Military History
History of military deeds, forces, insignias, 
and other tertiary information.
50%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Monster Hunter
Knowledge of hunting large monsters, aliens, 
and other creatures - a real proof of a hero.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Scouter
The knack for getting a read on an enemy to 
determine their relative strength.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Tactics
The Ability to understand and devise tactical 
operations in combat situations.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%

?
People Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Animal Husbandry
Understanding of how to tame, handle, and 
manage different animals. 
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Banter
Ability to talk to the common man in a casual 
manner.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Barter
The Ability to work with merchants, buyers, 
sellers, and the world of business.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Charm
The Ability to seduce or charm another 
person interested in the Drifter.
50%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Command
The Ability to command and order others to 
perform their duty.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Diplomacy
Ability to negotiate with neutral or enemy 
forces for optimal outcomes.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Empathy
Ability to understand if another individual is 
under duress and in need of assistance.
20%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Etiquette
Ability to quickly adapt and understand 
traditions of the elite and nobility.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Performance (Open)
Ability to entertain and amuse an audience in 
a particular style.
50%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Sign Language (Open)
Ability to perform complex sign languages to 
either convey information or speak silently.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%

Open Skill Examples
Performance
Sign Language
Exo Rock 
(Heavy metal using alien instruments, popular in Chigeon)
Hand American
(American Sign Language - now more aggressive.)
Classical Latin Choir
(Commonly sung by the Latin Choir of the NAP)
Northern Tri Hand
(A Psychic Sign Language using a Mental Third Hand)
Coalition Rap
(Militarized Rhyming mixed with a beat.)
Palm Cree
(Complicated sign language of the Cree Tribes in Canada.)
Creative Writing
(Creation and development of creative writing endeavors)
Coalition Military Sign
(Military sign language of the Coalition Military)


The Wayward Notes - People Skills & You
People Skills mostly cover the ability to talk and 
get information from others. There is the ÅgFASTÅh 
way of making a check to get something 
answered and the more detailed method 
covered in the Demeanor Section.
The big reminder is that People Skills are not 
mind control (though a particularly vile Psychic . . 
.), and if someone doesnÅft know or doesnÅft want 
to tell you, itÅfll be difficult to get the information. 
On the other hand, a People Skill Check is often 
needed to ask directions or order a sandwich.

Science Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Astra Knowledge 
Understanding and learning in regards to 
Magic, Earthblood, and Mysticism.
20%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Formal Science (Open)
Ability to understand branches of logic and 
mathematics.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Natural Sciences (Open)
Ability to understand natural phenomena 
and apply it to scientific theory.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Pre-Collapse History
Understanding of Pre-Collapse Civilization 
and its nuances.
5%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Psycho Phenomenon
Understanding and learning in regards to 
Psychic Powers and the Inland Emperor.
20%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Social Sciences (Open)
Ability to understand branches of human 
behavior and logic.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Tear Knowledge
Understanding of Tears and how they 
function. 
5%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Xeno Science (Open)
Ability to understand branches of Xeno 
Sciences and Alien Technology.
5%
+8%
+3%
+0%

Open Skill Examples
Formal Science
Natural Science
Social Science
Xeno Science
Mathematics 
(The art of maths and numbers)
Biology 
(Biological Sciences and Animal Sciences)
Legal Sciences 
(Understanding of legal precedence)
Xenobiology 
(Study of Exo Biology and Tear Creatures)
Data Science
(Managing data flows and reading statistical data)
Chemistry
(Understanding of the properties of substances)
Economics
(Study of economies, currencies, and market fluctuations)
Aeven Sociology
(Understanding of Exo Society and Cultural Norms)
Cryptography
(Creating and breaking cyphers)
Astronomy
(Study of the Stars and Beyond)
Philosophy
(The Study of the Mind and Intelligent Thought)
Nu-Food Science
(Research into the creation and distribution of NuFood)

?
Technical Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Architecture
Learning and fundamentals behind buildings 
and construction.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Daredevil
Ability for a Drifter to perform tricks and 
other maneuvers inside of their Vehicle.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Navigation
Ability to read, comprehend, and chart 
mapping systems for long distance 
engagements.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Piloting  (Open)
Understanding how to pilot a different 
variety of vehicles in the world.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Salvage Operations
Talent for picking through debris and other 
locations for choice pieces of salvage.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Sensor Equipment
Ability to read, understand, and interpret 
signals on sensory equipment.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Technical (Open)
Ability to understand and perform a detailed 
subject.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%


Open Skill Examples
Piloting
Technical
Land Vehicles 
(Piloting Cars, Trucks, Tanks, and Haulers)
Clowning 
(Advanced Knowledge of the Honk Arts)
Aero Vehicles
(Piloting Jets, Helicopters, etc)
Roping 
(Understanding of how to use ropes for tying or 
wrangling)
Aquatic Vehicles
(Piloting personal boats, yachts, and cargo ships)
Barbering 
(Knowledge of Hair Care and Maintenance)
Vertical Armored Cavalry 
(Piloting Mecha of various sizes)
Begging 
(The Truest Art of Asking Others for Money)
Power Armor 
(Advanced functions of Power Armor)
Tabletop RPG Developer 
(A Truly Miserable Experience)


The Wayward Notes - ÅgNuanceÅh Skills
A ÅgNuanceÅh Skill is a Technical Skill that a Drifter may take to 
ÅgSpecializeÅh one of their other Skills. A Skill Such as 
Computer Use could have a Nuance Skill of ÅgComputer 
Hacking.Åh 
These start and develop at the Technical SkillÅfs rate. 
However, the ÅgCapÅh to this Skill is equal to its Parent Skill 
current cap. Thus if Computer Use is at 75% then Computer 
Hacking can only raise to 75% no matter what. 
Nuance Skills will grant a ÅgBetterÅh outcome than using the 
Parent Skill.
Why is this a side note? It is bulkier and more awkward, use 
at your own peril.


?
Psychic Skills
	Psychic Skills require the Drifter to have Awakened their Psychic Potential to open successfully. 
If they have not, they may not learn or develop these Skills.
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Identify Psychic Power
Uncanny knowledge of the flow of 
Psychophysical Space to identify powers.
20%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Read Psychic Signature
Understanding of how to read and internalize 
others' Psychic Signatures.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Shivers
Developing a Sixth Sense to react to 
situations before they come up; Gut Feelings. 
50%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Trancing 
Ability to enter a Trance State to induce 
rapid physical and mental recovery. 
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%

Magic Skills
	Magic Skills require the Drifter to have Awakened their Magic Potential to open successfully. If 
they have not, they may not learn or develop these Skills.
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Druidic Circles
The study of Druidic Magic and its nature.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Elemental Physics
The study of Elemental Magic and the core 
elements of reality.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Fiend Knowledge
The study of Demonic Sorcery, Devil Pacts, 
and other Fiend Related Creatures.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
School of Occultism
The study of the Occultic and Ritual Arts, 
often grand and mysterious methods.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Technomancy
The study of the fusion of magic, technology, 
and practical uses of magic. 
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Theurgy
The study of religious magic and pseudo-
miraculous events via magic.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Tulpamancy
The study of Tulpas, Mental Magic, and the 
relationship of Magic and Psychic Powers.
5%
+4%
+0%
+0%

Wilderness Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Camouflage
Ability to hide oneself with natural features.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Naturalism
Ability to identify and understand plant, 
animal, and natural environments.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Land Navigation
Ability to navigate difficult terrain in hostile 
environments.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Tracking
Ability to follow tracks and hunt people and 
animals down.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Bushcraft
Crafting and Using Makeshift Equipment.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Homesteading
Knowledge of how to forage, hunt, and 
survive off the immediate environment.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
ATB Skills
ATB Name
Description
Attribute Bonuses / Benefits
Acrobat
The Drifter is, or was, a noted acrobat in their past, developing a 
graceful way of moving.
+1 FIN / +1 SPD
Armchair Scholar
The Drifter has a hobby in researching topics at seemingly 
random.
+1 COM / +10% to Formal, Natural, or 
Social Science Skill. 
Athleticism
The Drifter takes care of themselves through rigorous athletic 
pursuits.
+1 FIN, +1 HRD, +1 POW, or +1 SPD (Pick 
2)
Blood Vein 
(Awakened Magician)
The Drifter has infused their bloodstream with magic, further 
enhancing their Attributes, at the cost of a sickly appearance and 
blood red veins.
+1 to Any, +2d4 MP
Bodily Control 
(Awakened Psychic)
The Drifter has mastered complete body control, being able to 
manage their own physical development and organs.
+1 to Any, +2d4 ESP
Body Modder
The Drifter has had time and effort to adapt their body to various 
body modding techniques.
+1 HRD - Increase Cybernetic Stress by 
+10.
Bodybuilding
The Drifter has bulked up through extensive exercise, muscle 
building activities, and hitting that iron.
+1 POW / +5 Endurance
Bootcamp
The Drifter has gone through a military boot camp, kicking their 
ass to harden their resolve.
+1 HRD, +1 POW, +1 SPD, +1 WIL, or +1d4 
Endurance and Health (Choose 2)
Brain Fried
The Drifter had an unfortunate encounter with a psychic in their 
early life, leaving them partially Brain Fried.
-1 COM, +1 ANM, +2 POW
Cram School
The Drifter has undertaken extensive cram schooling in their 
youth to pass rigorous exams.
+1 COM / +1 WIL
Dieting
The Drifter has a strict diet routine during their life, improving their 
constitution and look alongside it.
+1 BRV / +1 HRD
Endurance 
Training
The  Drifter has done everything in their power to fix their body 
and mind to peak performance.
+1 HRD / +1 WIL
Forbidden Meat
Whether in desperation, upbringing, or worse, the Drifter has 
partaken in the Forbidden Meat.
+1 to Any, -2 Demeanor
Gourmand
The Drifter has a discerning taste to most things, and does enjoy 
eating whatever they can whenever they want.
+1 COM, +10% to the Cooking Skill (or 
Opening it as a Hobby Skill)
Gymnastics
The Drifter understands the art of gymnastics and its benefits.
+1 FIN / +1 POW
Harsh Condition 
Specialist
The Drifter has specialized in dealing with harsh and dangerous 
conditions, making it easier for them to resist it.
Heat, Cold, or Radiation -  Resistance 2.
Inland Border 
Patrol
The Drifter has trained their mind to resist the influence of Psychic 
Powers, making them more attuned to the world.
+1 ANM / +1 Psychic Resistance
Iron Gut
The DrifterÅfs stomach is made of steel and their body proves it.
+1 WIL / +1 POW
Kadenz 
(Awakened Magician)
The Drifter has effectively enchanted their body to be more 
efficient, ravishing their Magic Power supply for enhanced power.
+1 to Three Attributes, -3d6 MP
Labor
A history of physically intensive jobs and hobbies.
+1 HRD / +1 POW / +10% to a Trade Skill
LoganÅfs Loophole
The Drifter has an uncanny resistance to drugs, alcohol, and other 
intoxicants. For now anyway.
+2 HRD / +3 to Saves vs Drugs, Alcohol, 
and Hallucinogens
Marathon Runner
The Drifter has taken part in marathons and other high 
endurance tests of skill, toughening them up.
+1 SPD / +5 Endurance
Masochist
The Drifter has a history of being a living, human, punching bag, 
toughening up their body.
+1 HRD / +5 Endurance
Meditation
The Drifter has trained extensively in meditative arts to hone their 
mind and body.
+1 COM, +1 ANM
Purity of Mind 
(Awakened Psychic)
The Drifter has undergone a purification of the mind and body, 
emerging as a different and less emotional person.
+1 ANM / WIL
Ranger Training
The Drifter has undergone Ranger Training - becoming more 
attuned to the natural world to survive its harsh realities.
+1 to FIN, POW, SPD, or WIL (Choose 1)
+10% to one Wilderness Skill
Running
The Drifter is a casual runner, but could have gone professional 
with enough training.
+2 SPD
School of Hard 
Knocks
The Drifter has learned from the rough and tumble life, often one 
where getting caught is a death sentence.
+1 to ANM, FIN, SPD, or WIL (Choose 1)
+10% to one Espionage & Rogue Skill
Splurgoth Slave 
Soldier
The Drifter has been genetically modified by the Splurgoth to 
serve as their EVER LOYAL servants.
-3 COM, -3 WIL, +3 POW, +3 HRD
Augmented Power and Hardiness
Sports Athlete
The Drifter has extensive knowledge (and scars) of a sport they 
use to play.
+1 FIN, +1 HRD, +1 POW, or +1 SPD (Pick 1) 
/ Technical: [Sport of Choice ] (+20%)
Sprinting
The Drifter has a history as a sprinter, short distance bursts of 
speed and determination.
+1 SPD / +2 Personal Initiative.
Swimmer
The Drifter is a natural born swimmer, able to tread water and 
navigate waterways with ease. 
+1 POW and +1 HRD 
Swimming Skill (50% + 12%)
The Look
The Drifter has ÅgThe LookÅh that naturally attracts attention and 
keeps the eye to them and them alone.
+1 BRV 
+10% to one People Skill
VizierÅfs Trust
The Drifter has been microdosing various poisons and toxins their 
entire life, while terrible at first, a tolerance has grown. 
+2 HRD / +3 versus Poisons
War Veteran
The Drifter served in the armed forces for a prolonged period of 
time, learning the ins and outs of military life.
+1 to FIN, POW, HRD, or SPD (Choose 1)
+10% to one Military Skill
 ?
Combat Training
Combat 
Training
Description
Actions per Round
None
The Drifter has no formal combat training or ability.
1
Basic
The Drifter has a basic idea of how to defend themselves.
2
Military
The Drifter has basic military training for most military forces.
3
Veteran
The Drifter has seen conflict and has been hardened by it. 
4
Commando
The Drifter is a highly trained military soldier, excelling at all combat 
situations they are thrown into.
5
Elite
The Drifter is considered one of the best warriors of the age, few can 
hope to match their prowess on the battlefield.
6
Weapon Proficiencies
	Each Weapon Proficiency Skill may only be taken once. If the Drifter does not have the Weapon 
Proficiency, they may still use the weapon, but not perform any Weapon Expertise with it. The Archaic 
Projectile Weapons, Archaic Melee Weapons, and Archaic Firearms cover all weapons in regards to 
their standard damage variants - all other Combat Proficiencies are considered to be for Mega 
Damage melee weapons or firearms.

Weapon Proficiency
Description
Archaic Projectile Weapons
Bows, Crossbows, Etc
Archaic Melee Weapons
Swords, Axes, Hammers, etc
Modern Melee Weapons
Vibroaxe, Energysword, SH Spear, etc
Archaic Firearms
Small Caliber Firearms - SD Revolvers, Handguns, Rifles, etc
Unarmed
Unarmed Combat Techniques whether formal or informal. 
Kinetic Handgun
Handguns using ballistics or large-density objects to inflict damage.
Energy Handgun
Handguns using energy, plasma, or gauss to inflict damage. 
Kinetic Long Gun
Rifles and other Long Guns using ballistics or large-density objects to inflict damage.
Energy Long Gun
Rifles and other Long Guns using energy, plasma, or gauss to inflict damage. 
Kinetic Automatics
Automatic weapons using ballistics or large-density objects to inflict damage.
Energy Automatics
Automatic weapons using energy, plasma, or gauss to inflict damage. 
Heavy Weapons
Large, bulky, emplacement sized weaponry.
Vehicle Hardpoints
Weapons attached to a Vehicle being directly controlled by the Pilot or a Gunner.
?
Weapon Specialties
	A Weapon Specialty is a refinement of a Drifter's combat abilities that are not directly 
impacting their  quality of combat training. Each Specialty allows the Drifter to have different options 
or bonuses under specific circumstances. Each Weapon Specialty may only be taken once, but its 
effects will apply to all weapons or actions that fit under it.

Martial Arts
Bloodball - The Drifter has practiced his tackles 
and takedowns on the fields of Bloodball. May 
forgo damage after a Punch Unarmed Attack to 
knock a Target of similar or smaller size to the 
ground.

Boxing - The Drifter has trained a lethal right 
hook. All Punch Unarmed Attacks deal an 
additional +2 Damage and on a Natural 20, will 
force a Hardiness Save from the opponent to not 
be knocked out for 1d6 Minutes. 

Capoeira - The Drifter understands dance-based 
martial art. They gain +2 to Personal Initiative 
while they are Unarmed and have +1 Auto Dodge.

Drunken Fist - While the Drifter is under the 
influence of alcoholic beverages or other 
intoxicants, they have +2 Auto Dodge and take no 
Physical Penalties while intoxicated.

EPTMS - Efficient Personnel Termination 
Management System is installed in the Drifter. If 
they have Mechanical POW, they add +3 to all 
Unarmed Strike Damage and +1 Auto Parry.

Gachta - Adonis Combat Wrestling, upon a 
successful Punch Unarmed Attack, may begin to 
Wrestle the Target. During Wrestling, may make 
Punch, Kick, and other Unarmed Attacks to the 
target. Adds the [Gory] Tags to all Unarmed 
Attacks after they have been grappled.

Gun-Fu - Learning the ancient art of gun-kata 
from the old masters. If the Drifter is using a One-
Hand, Main Hand, or Paired Firearms, they are 
treated as if they are Unarmed. 

Hercule - Gladiatorial Showfighting, when 
calculating a Damage Bonus to Unarmed Attacks 
in Melee, they treat their BRV as their POW.

Invisible Soup (Awakened Psychic Only) - An 
extreme martial art that involves mentally 
projecting objects and situations for the Drifter 
and a single Target. They may increase their Heat 
by 10 to a simple mental construct that can only 
be perceived by the two fighters. They may use 
this object during combat . 

Iron Crotch - During Melee Combat, if the Drifter 
were to take a Critical Hit, they may choose which 
Critical Effect they suffer.

Judo - The Drifter adds +2 to their Combat Check 
when they are making a Wrestling Combat Action 
during Unarmed Combat. Adds the [Stagger] Tag 
to Wrestling Attacks.

Juicer-Kido - The Drifter must possess 
Augmented POW. Upon a successful Parry, the 
Drifter makes a Punch or Kick Attack against the 
Target if they are within range. 

Karate - The Drifter adds +1 to their Combat 
Checks for Punches and Kicks. Enable the use of 
Flying Kick and Chop.

?

Planet Hollywood Fist - The Drifter fights like a 
superstar. The Drifter has -2 to all Combat Checks 
with Unarmed Combat, but all enemies have -2 to 
Parry or Dodge the Attack. This isnÅft combat, this 
is showmanship.

Savate - The Drifter has picked advanced kicking 
techniques. The DrifterÅfs Kick Unarmed Attack has 
a +2 to Hit and deals +2 Damage. Allows the use 
of Roundhouse Kick.

Schwingen - The Drifter is particularly skilled at 
Wrestling Techniques, they gain a +2 to Combat 
Checks while attempting to Wrestle.

Street Warrior - The Drifter is trained for the 
streets and ready for some fatal fury. The Drifter 
treats improvised weapons as if they were 
Unarmed.

Subway Monkey - The Drifter is a street fighting 
aficionado, in enclosed spaces, the Drifter has a 
+3 to Combat Checks for Unarmed Attacks.

SUITS - The Drifter is adept at SUITS 
Gentlemanly Fighting Techniques - all Unarmed 
Fist Attacks deal +2 Damage and have a +2 to 
Combat Checks for Fist Attacks. Looks ridiculous 
for everyone involved. 

TIPS - The Drifter is trained in the undignified art 
of the service industry, TIPS is trained to service 
employees to subdue, submit, and possibly snap a 
rowdy customer. When Wrestling, Target has a -2 
to escape the hold and -1 to their Choke-Out.

Total Concentration Breathing (Awakened Only) 
- The Drifter inhales deeply, focusing inward. They 
set their Heat to maximum, but may use MP to 
add +1 to Unarmed Combat Checks or +1 to 
Unarmed Combat Damage. 

UFC - The Drifter has practiced the Second 
Greatest Martial Art in the world, UFC. Ultimate 
Fighter Champion grants the Drifter a +1 Auto-
Parry and +1 to Combat Checks for Punches and 
Kicks. They can never learn Unifght.
Unifight (?) - The Drifter has practiced the 
WorldÅfs Greatest Martial Art. Unifight (?) grants 
the Drifter a +1 Auto-Dodge and +1 to Combat 
Checks for Punches and Kicks. They can never 
learn UFC. 

Wyrding Way (Awakened Magicians Only) - 
Focusing a massive amount of their Magic Power 
inwards, the Drifter enters a state of complete 
focus. Setting their Heat to 10, the Drifter may now 
apply Inscribed Glyphs and Gestures to their 
Unarmed Attacks. 

Zama Zama Pit Fighting - Named after the 
guttural Splurgoth language it comes from, Zama 
Zama Pit Fighting is a specialized style for the 
Gladiators of the Splurgoth Slave Pits. The Drifter 
has a +2 to Combat Checks for Punches and 
Kicks, +3 Damage to Unarmed Punches and Kicks, 
and attacks are always considered lethal. 

?

Technique
Action Reload - The Drifter may reload a Main 
Hand or One-Hand Weapon when they make a 
Non-Attack Action.

A More Civilized Age - The Drifter reduces the 
Formality of all Melee Weapons by -3.

Berserker - The Drifter lapses into a temporary 
blood-high, if the Drifter is in Melee Combat with 
a Melee Weapon, they gain a +4 to Combat 
Checks and +4 to Damage, but their NSR is set to 
0.

Bloody Mess - When the Drifter scores a Critical 
Hit, their weapon is assumed to have the Gory 
Tag.

Built Tough - The Drifter has a natural AR of 5, if 
they already have an AR they increase it by +1. 

Dive Shooting - After a Successful Dodge, the 
Drifter may knock themselves Prone to make an 
Attack Action with a Firearm.

Eagle Eye - The Drifter has a +2 to Combat 
Checks with Rifle Class Firearms.

Eclipse Style - The Drifter may use oversized 
melee weapons (+1d Damage, 25% Cost Increase) 
with no issue.

Fencing - The Drifter is trained in the classic art of 
fencing, when using a single Melee Weapon in the 
Main Hand they gain a +2 to Combat Checks and 
perform a Critical Hit on a 19 or 20. 

Gunslinger - The Drifter has an itchy trigger 
finger, if they are using a Handgun Weapon, they 
may draw it as a Free Action and gain +2 to 
Personal Initiative when using just a Handgun. 

Iaido - The Drifter flashes a melee weapon in an 
instant, they may draw a melee weapon for a 
free action or draw it for an action and gain a +2 
to strike with it. Must resheathe the weapon to 
perform this again. 
Kamikaze - The DrifterÅfs deathwish lets them 
spend a Reaction against a Melee Attack to 
immediately counter attack with their own Melee 
Weapon. They will take the damage of the attack 
first.

Knife Fighter - The Drifter is quick with a knife, if 
using a Knife in one-hand, the Drifter may add +4 
to Combat Checks, but gain the Recoil Tag.

Man with Gun - The Drifter reduces the Formality 
of all Firearms by -3.

Multi-Weapon Fighting - The Drifter has at least 
two hands with a weapon drawn, they gain a +1 
to Combat Checks and deals +2 Damage. 



One in the Eye - The Drifter chooses a Weapon 
of their choice, this Weapon hits a Critical Hit on a 
19 or 20.

One Last Squeeze - When an E-Mag is depleted, 
the Drifter has one additional shot left in their 
weapon.

Pistolero - The Drifter's Handgun Weapons deal 
+2 Damage.

Recoil Control - The Drifter ignores the first 
instance of Recoil from their weapon.

Run & Gun - The Drifter may make an Attack 
Action with a Firearm in the middle of a 
Maneuver Action.

Second Skin - The Drifter reduces the Maneuver 
Penalty of their Armor by 2.

Shotgun Surgeon - When the Drifter inflicts a 
Critical Hit with a Shotgun, they may select two 
Critical Effects.
Signature Weapon - The Drifter chooses a 
weapon in their possession, they gain a +1 to 
Combat Checks and -2 to Formality with it.

Snapshot - The Drifter may make a Reaction 
check to make a Ranged Attack at a -6.

Spotter - The Drifter may begin spotting for an 
ally in the same Space. The Drifter chooses an 
Ally and spends an Action - as long as they do 
not move from this Space or are disrupted in any 
way - the Ally has a +2 to Combat Checks.

Tally Ho! - When the Drifter makes a Maneuver 
Action and then makes a Melee Attack, they add 
+1d Damage to their attack.

Ultimate Commando - When using a weapon 
with Heavy Tag, the Drifter may ignore it if they 
treat it as a Full Body Weapon.














?
Background & Occupations
	Every Drifter has a story to tell. With each of these stories they always tend to be the 
protagonist of their own heroic fantasy or rather miserable experience. 
	Each Drifter has Backgrounds and Occupations which define their initial skill set, physical 
features, and attributes they have. Normally a Drifter has three: Background, Occupation, and one of 
their choice. Specialized Drifters only have a Background and Occupation. Each different Background 
and Occupation has their own separate set of benefits and drawbacks associated with them, with the 
Drifter being able to improve them gradually.
	Whenever the Drifter has reached a milestone in their life, they will increase their Character 
Level, or CL, by one. CL indicates the overall experience of the Drifter in the field, thus a "CL 5" Drifter is 
more experienced than a "CL 1" Drifter. Increasing a CL allows the Drifter to increase the Rank of all of 
their currently acquired Backgrounds and Occupations, increasing their Rank by 1 . Specialized Drifters 
may add two Ranks to their Occupation or Background, alternating between the two . 
	Background and Occupation features may be measured by Character Level or Rank. Every CL 
5 is every five Character Levels, while Rank 5, indicates that it must be at least Rank 5 or greater. 
Increasing CL directly increases each Background and Occupation, so why the difference?
	Drifters may transfer out of Backgrounds and Occupations during different intervals in their life. 
Representing a part of their life that no longer defines them or is stagnating them. Once a Background 
or Occupation is transferred out of, the Drifter may not "re-enter" the Background or Occupation. 
Though they will keep all of the bonuses (and drawbacks) they would have acquired from their time. 
	Different Backgrounds and Occupations will have a different amount of Karma they have 
access to. Karma is gained every CL equal to the Karma ratings of all current Backgrounds and 
Occupations. This allows the Drifter to further develop themselves outside of the rigidity of their 
Background or Occupation. High Karma indicates an adaptable and open ended approach, while low 
(or negative!) Karma is rigid and strict in how it develops properly .?
Name of Occupation / Background (Occupation / Background Supertype)
Alternative Names, Technical, Derogatory, and Complimentary Terms.
Å@Å@Å@Å@The Occupation / Background Supertype represents larger trends and natures of the Occupation itself - such as being 
ÅgScholarsÅh or ÅgMan-At-ArmsÅh just as much as being a ÅgRaceÅh or ÅgBackground.Åh Normally this section would contain a quick write up on the 
nature of the background and deeper information about those who walk the bath.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
Each Occupation and 
Background will provide 
a set of Attribute Die for 
the Drifter to roll after 
choosing them.
 
These are the DrifterÅfs 
Starting Attributes.
Bravado

Comprehension

Finesse

Hardiness

Power

Speed

WIllpower



Endurance
Bonuses to both HP and 
Endurance
Health

Karma
# of Karma
Potential
Whether the Drifter has 
Potential for Psychic or 
Magical Abilities
ESP / MP
Bonuses to ESP or MP
Transfer
Rank Required to 
Transfer out.
Learning Rate
Ranks required for a 
new Learned Skill


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Primary Skills developed when the Drifter first takes this Background 
or Occupation - not acquired if Transferred into later.
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Learned Skills develop when the Background or ClassÅfs Learning Rate 
in Ranks appears. Thus a Learning Rate 3 would learn a new Learned 
Skill from this list every 3 Ranks.

A Drifter may choose to select one of their Primary Skills to gain a 
+10% bonus to it instead.



Special Abilities - Certain Background and Occupations have 
special abilities which will be noted. If there is a unique Skill 
included it will have the complete Development Rate and is 
assumed to be a CORE Skill for purposes of improving it later on, 
regardless of the Development Rate.

If the Special Ability is dictated as ÅgEvery X RanksÅh then the Drifter 
will begin with it if this is their first Background or Occupation, 
NOT if they transferred into it.


The Wayward Notes - Particulars & Such
The Backgrounds & Occupations presented here are a 
collection of simplified and often generic situations that 
can be slotted anywhere on the Errant Earth.
If a Player or GM wishes to include the ÅgParticularÅh Rules - 
consult the following.
 
When the Drifter selects an Occupation or Background 
they may announce it is a Particular Occupation or 
Background. They gain a Lore or Trade Skill related to 
this new particular at the Core Level, but increase their 
Transfer Rate by +2.

Thus a Fermi Brotherhood Scientist would have the Lore: 
Fermi Brotherhood Skill with a Transfer of 5. 


Starting Equipment Package: Which Equipment Packages 
the Drifter may select. After they have selected everything, 
they may only choose one of these.
 
Starting Wealth: Starting amount of Stony Point Credits for 
the greater Great Lakes Confederacy region. The Drifter 
begins with the sum total of all of their Backgrounds and 
Occupations.

Signature Focus: Different aspects about the Background 
or Occupation that may tie into features of others. Such as 
ÅgGaudyÅh being a descriptor for Power Armor for a 
Mercenary Pilot.

Transfer Requirements: If the Drifter wishes to Transfer 
into the Background or Occupation, they must meet these 
requirements to ÅgUnlockÅh it.

Standard Transfer : What options are available for the 
Background or Occupation to transfer out of naturally. If 
they have the Transfer Requirements for a different 
Background or Occupation, they may choose that instead. 

The Wayward Notes - Background / Occupation Supertypes

Supertype
B / O
Can Take Multiple?
Description
Racial
Background
No
The Drifter belongs to a particular type of people - whether 
it is an alien species or robotic chassis.
Qualifier
Background
Some
The Drifter has a particular racial understanding which has 
morphed their being into a subtype of another.
History
Background
Yes
The Drifter has a particular background or history in a 
certain field or area of expertise.
Trait
Background
Yes
The Drifter has been inflicted with or has the unfortunate 
reality of possessing a certain trait or procedure done.
Adventurer
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is drawn to the wandering life, preferring the 
comforts of the open road over conventional living.
Man-At-Arms
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is a warrior at heart, fighting against the end of 
the world with a gun in both hands.
Educated
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is a learned individual, taking pride in their skills, 
knowledge, and understanding of the world.
Psychic
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is a trained Psychic, able to manipulate their 
abilities without issue.
Magical
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is a trained Magician, able to use and 
manipulate their magical talents with ease.
Expert
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is an expert in a particular field or influence, 
letting them pull their weight directly or indirectly.
Legacy
Occupation
No, except Novice
The Drifter possesses a Legacy, allowing them to cement a 
fact about themselves and their destiny in the world.


The Wayward Notes - Standard vs Specialist


Standard (3 B/O)
Specialist (2 B/O)
Ranks
Standard +1 Rank per CL
Alternating +2/+1 Rank per CL
Attributes
Standard Die Roll
Take Average (? of Max Die) of 
Background or Occupation
Skills
Standard Skills
Standard Skills
Endurance / HP
Standard
Double the Result of their Background 
or Occupation
Starting Credits
Standard
Double Total
Starting Karma
Standard
Add +6 Karma to Initial Amount

?
Backgrounds

Academic (History)
Teachers, Students, Trainors, Tutors, Fellow, Pretentious
	The Drifter was born and raised into the scholarly side of life - preferring books, lectures, and 
tapes of ancient history, scientific knowledge, and other pursuits of the mind. Their education may be 
sporadic, sometimes formally in the ramshackle schools and impromptu universities of the 
Confederacy but other times they are little more than scavenged knowledge preached by a 
wandering teacher or a diligent guardian willing to enable a drive.
	Academics arenÅft the adventuring type by nature, but the pursuit of knowledge or the passion 
for learning has many strike out in search of their own research.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d3 / CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
3
Potential
+10
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any 
Core
Cram School
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
Any
Science
Trained
Any
Technical
Trained
Any
Cultural
Trained
Any
Any
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained
Armchair Scholar
ATB Skill
ATB Skill



Developed Educational Process - Academics have trained themselves 
to internalize knowledge quickly, lest it be lost or taken from them. 
Every 3 Ranks, the Academic may add +10% to three Skills of their 
choice, regardless of current Skill Rating.

Diploma - The Academic can study rigorously to become an expert at 
certain fields. Every 4 Ranks, the Academic may select any Skill above 
50% and give it a Skill Tag of their choice.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Scholar
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 20 Credits

Signature Focus: Books, Knowledge, Precise

Transfer Requirements: 1-Year Tenure at a Scholarly Institution or 3-
Years as a Wandering Scholar or Other Independent Educator.

Standard Transfer : Adventurer or Educated Occupation


?
Adonis (Racial)
Clones, Meatmen, Legionnaires, Samefaces, Bucketheads
	The Adonis is a simple creature, their ÅgPeopleÅh are Homo Perfectus, the perfect specimen of 
humanity synthesized in an ancient lab to be cloned en masse to wage war in the name of whoever 
paid their bills. That history ended with the Collapse - the renegade Adonis of a world that ceased to 
be kept doing what they did best: fight. Endlessly cloning themselves in their facilities to continue the 
war effort against the end of the world.
	The Adonis now continue as theyÅfve always done, often finding themselves as soldiers of 
fortune or enjoying life as much as they can - their perception warped over the endless vats they 
spawned from. Square jawed, grey-eyed, and tanned complexion  is humble in the chaos, but 
adapted to it.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D12
Hardiness
D12
Power
D12
Speed
D10
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d8 / CL
Health
+2 / CL
Karma
0
Potential
-65%
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency

 

Catachan - Built to last and survive harsh conditions, Adonis 
can go without eating for a month, water for two weeks, and 
only need to sleep 8 Hours every three days. 

Order 66- The Adonis are wired to listen to orders, they take a 
-10 to all Saves versus Mental Magic, Psychic Powers, or other 
influences over their mind to plant suggestions or deliver 
orders.

War Child Clones - The Adonis are built for war, molded by 
an imaginary one. Their Finesse, Hardiness, Power, and Speed 
are considered to be Augmented.
Starting Equipment Package: Soldier or Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 Credits

Signature Focus: Weapons, Armor, Mass Produced

Transfer Requirements: Not Possible

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms
?
Arcadian (History)
Rural, Countryfolk, Bumpkins, Backwood Jackals
	The natural beauty of the world was lost under the smog and neon lights of the old world, one 
of the few things that the Collapse did fix. One of the few. Arcadian is the term used for the humble 
folks who homestead out in the deep places. They possess the necessary gusto, strength, or 
reclusiveness to live out where monsters roam free and the ÅgCityfolksÅh always want a cut of the crop 
for little more than a few pieces of scrap metal and vague promises.
	Arcadians who venture from their home follow the call of adventure, that odyssian wanderlust 
driving the country kid to the great unknown, or the far more common desperation to shake off losing 
oneÅfs livelihood to the forces that be. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D4
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
4
Potential
+5 to Magic
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
2
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Homesteading OR 
Salvage Operations
Wilderness / Technical
Core
Domestic Work
Cultural
Core
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained
Earth Mechanics: Any
Electronics & 
Mechanics
Trained
Holistic Medicine OR 
Veterinary
Medical
Trained
Animal Husbandry
People
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained



Touching Grass - ArcadianÅfs feel comfortable in the outdoors, they 
possess the Natural Aura (20% +4%) Skill, allowing them to get an 
empathetic read on the natural landscape.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Wilderness or Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 Credits

Signature Focus: Nature, Fauna

Transfer Requirements: 3-Years on a Farmstead or a Retreat in the 
countryside.

Standard Transfer : Any

?
Artifact (Trait)
Attuned, Integrated, Bonded
	With the opening of the Tears and the Exos who spewed out in the chaotic years following, 
artifacts of a hundred-thousand realities have been deposited on the Errant Earth for the blessed or 
unlucky few who would pick them up. Artifacts can be a plethora of different entities that the Drifter 
has bonded with at a fundamental level, allowing them to tap into their powers when needed but also 
feel the compulsion to act on their ArtifactÅfs whims.
	Drifters with an Artifact as also the type to find themselves roving, or at least roving for the 
purpose of avoiding (or being the part of) the consequences of the ÅgpartnerÅfsÅh actions.

ATTRIBUTE
Psychic 
Die
Magical 
Die
Symbiote 
Die
Anima
D10
D4
-
Bravado
-
-
-
Comprehension
D8
D8
-
Finesse
D6
D6
D10
Hardiness
D6
D6
D10
Power
D6
D6
D10
Speed
D6
D6
D10
WIllpower
D4
D10
-




Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
+1d8 / 2 CL
+1d10 / CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
+1 / 2 CL
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
0
0
0
Potential
Note
Note
Note
ESP / MP
Note
Note
Note
Transfer
Note
Note
Note
Learning Rate
4
4
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Tear Knowledge
Science
Core
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby


Starting Equipment Package: 
Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 Credits

Signature Focus: The Artifact
Transfer Requirements: Bond 
with an Artifact

Standard Transfer : Any 
Occupation
 


The Artifact - The Artifact is always with the 
Drifter, whether they like it or not. The Artifact 
derives its power from either MAGIC, PSYCHIC, 
or PHYSICAL Abilities due to its creation.
Åú	Magical Artifact - The Artifact is 
magical in nature, being forged from 
Earthblood or emerging from a Mana 
Rich homeworld. Every 2 Ranks the 
Drifter is able to acquire a new Cantrip 
related to their Artifact. If selected 
during Drifter Creation - it possesses 2 
Cantrips of choice.
Åú	Psychic Artifact - The Artifact 
radiates a Psychosignature, allowing it 
to use the Drifter as a vehicle to use 
psychic phenomenon. Every 2 Ranks, 
the Drifter gains a new Resonant, 
Charge, or Latent Power. If taken 
during Drifter Creation - it possesses 2 
Resonant Skills of Choice.
Åú	Symbiotic Artifact - The Artifact 
latches onto the body of the Drifter, 
integrating themselves deeply into 
them. Every 2 Ranks, they gain +1 to 
FIN, HRD, POW, or SPD.
Two Souls - The Artifact is symbiotic with the Drifter, feeding off one another 
for immediate survival or power. The Drifter creates their ESP or MP Pool as 
normal, even if they donÅft have awakened Magic or Psychic Powers. When 
using Spells or Psychic Abilities, the Drifter will use this pool to use it. 
Every Rank the Artifact increases the DrifterÅfs ESP or MP by +1d10 as its power 
grows. If the Drifter were to awaken their Psychic Power or Magical Ability, 
they would inherit this as their personal ESP / MP.
If the Artifact is a Symbiotic Artifact, this 1d10 is instead converted into 
Endurance. 

Parasite Creature - The Artifact is a natural parasite, as long as the Drifter 
has the Artifact Trait, they cannot awaken Magic or Psychic Powers. 

Tame the Artifact - Should the Drifter be able to tame their Artifact, they 
immediately transfer out of the Background. 
Åú	Magical Artifacts - Find someone able to use Sealing Magic to tame 
the Artifact from eating them further. The Artifact cannot seal itself 
(nor would it). 
Åú	Psychic Artifacts - The Drifter must enter the Inland Empire of the 
Artifact and negotiate with it. It decides when the Drifter is allowed 
in (or is forced open by another Psychic). 
Åú	Symbiotic Artifact - The Drifter must negotiate with the Artifact, 
either satisfying its demands or forcing it into compliance.
Chameleon (Race)
By Yaeger
	Magicians and Psychics are natural enemies, when their paths cross, itÅfs inevitable that 
destruction will follow. But once in a blue moon tinged in reddish hue, those destructive and 
catastrophic impulses to kill one another are replaced by lonely companionship. While nothing usually 
happens with these exchanges, the die of fate is a cruel mistress, and a Chameleon is born. Natural 
Psychics and Magicians, their bloodline is cursed with the unfortunate reality of their birth. Some are 
born anemic, others with mutations, many are left for dead once their Glimmer blinds a parent if they 
arenÅft prepared. But ChameleonÅfs who survive find themselves able to manipulate their glimmer, 
manipulate their own powers, and sometimes even others. Their ruby red eyes betray their nature, 
but few will ever betray themselves.
	Chameleons make natural Drifters, not being accepted by either of their communities due to 
their condition. While they are known to lie about their abilities, it makes no difference to the rest of the 
oddities of the Errant Earth. Perhaps one day theyÅfll have a place to call their own. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D10
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D10
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D10
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
-2
Potential
Magic & Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d10
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic
Combat Training
Combat Training
Any
Psychic OR Magic
Core
Bodily Control
ATB
ATB
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained
Any
Magic
Trained
Any
Espionage & Roguery
Trained
Blood Vein
ATB
ATB
Kadenz
ATB
ATB



Ruby Red Eyes - The DrifterÅfs Ruby RedÅfs allow them to see in 
the dark up to 60 Feet and at Rank 4, they are able to focus 
them with a WIL Check to achieve rudimentary X-Ray vision.

Crown of Glimmer - The DrifterÅfs Glimmer is naturally three 
times larger than it should be, but if the Drifter focuses 
themselves, they may modify their Glimmer for [Rank] 
Minutes.

Mimic -  If the Drifter locks eyes with another Psychic or 
Magician, they may forcefully ÅgCopyÅh a Charge, Latent, 
Resonant, Glyph, Gesture, or Spell. They may maintain a 
number of these copies equal to their Rank for the entire 
Combat. 


Cursed Blood -  The Universe loathes the Chameleon, every 
CL they roll a D100, if it is under [Rank x 5] then a tragedy 
befalls the Chameleon or disaster strikes quickly . 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Exile
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 25 Credits

Signature Focus: Ruby Red Eyes, Psychic Powers

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Magic or Psychic
?
Coalition (History)
Citizen, Military Ranks, Grunts, Skullheads, Fascist
	Safety and stability is the result of order in the chaos, the Coalition is the bulwark against the 
chaos of the world and only they can lead the path toward a brighter future. The Coalition is a hyper 
militarized and authoritarian society, always readying themselves against ÅgThe Great EnemyÅh that the 
leaders decide upon. One day it is the Exo Menace, the next, the Union must burn, and another it is the 
obvious fault of the ÅgothersÅh who live beyond the borders.
	Drifters who come from the Coalition are conditioned to stop thinking about themselves, 
focusing on the betterment of ÅgSociety.Åh Though the Drifters who used to wear Coalition colors are 
also the type that left that world behind them. Was it too rigid? Too demanding? Perhaps this is simply 
a mission to investigate the unknown. WhoÅfs to know and whoÅfs to say.	

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Trade: Any
Cultural
Hobby
Literacy: American
Cultural
Perfect
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Investigation
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Memetics
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Military
Trained
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained



Service Means Citizenship - The Drifter is considered a 
Citizen of the Coalition - affording them more rights and 
influence inside the borders of the state.

Forever War - Every 3 Ranks, the Drifter may acquire a new 
Weapon Proficiency or Weapon Specialization. The war that 
may never come always calls. 

The Great Menace - Propaganda and the state have always 
painted the ultimate evil, THE GREAT MENACE, that is always 
around the corner. The Drifter possesses the Menace 
Knowledge (50% + 10%) Skill, allowing them to know more 
about the ÅgMenacesÅh to society at large, real or imagined .
Starting Equipment Package: Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 100 Credits

Signature Focus: Military Insignia, Military Notation, Militarized 
Defiance

Transfer Requirements: Citizenship Status of the Coalition

Standard Transfer : Any
?
Corporate (History)
Employees, Field Agent, Businessman, Suits
	Business never really died, the Collapse may have ruined a number of conglomerates and 
destroyed the concept of the market - but the art of supply and demand never truly left. As time 
marches on, the ÅgCorporationsÅh may be represented by functional businesses in the centers of trade 
and urban centers of the world, while others may be a cartel of little more than thieves running a 
legitimate black market.
	Drifters from the Corporate sphere tend to be Assets or Wage Slaves. Assets are those who 
have been hired by the Corporation to act as their people on the outside. Wage Slaves are, as it 
implies, servants of the higher powers of the world as they work themselves to the bone inside and 
outside the cubicle. 

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Wage Slave
Anima
D6
D8
Bravado
D4
D8
Comprehensio
n
D4
D6
Finesse
D8
D4
Hardiness
D8
D4
Power
D8
D4
Speed
D6
D6
WIllpower
D4
D8



Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
4
4
Potential
-
-
ESP / MP
-
-
Transfer
3
3
Learning Rate
3
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Trade: Any
Cultural
Core
Literacy: American
Cultural
Perfect
Lore: The Company
Cultural
Trained
Barter
People
Trained
Etiquette
People
Trained
Any
People
Trained
Any
Any
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Any
People
Trained
Technical: Any
Technical
Trained




Paycheck - The Drifter actually receives pay as long as they are in service 
to the company. Every two weeks, as long as the Drifter is reporting their 
location to Headquarters they will receive a paycheck of (Rank+3 x 50) 
Credits to their accounts. In less focused societies, they will instead 
receive goods equal to their current paycheck.

Eyes of Corporate Insight - The Drifter possesses the Skill Market Insights 
(35% + 12%) allowing them to know about how the market is functioning in 
an area as well as identify major power players, their structure, and 
competition. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Civilian
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 150 Credits

Signature Focus: Corporate Memorabilia, Corporate Symbology, 
Business Focused, Mercenary

Transfer Requirements: Signing a 5-Year Contract with a large 
Corporate entity.

Standard Transfer : Any

Cyborg  (Qualifier)
Borgs, Tinheads, Chomehounds, Headhunters, Panzermanner
	The first augmentation is always the best. The replacement of weak flesh with the certainty of 
metal inspires others to dabble in scenes to further enhance, rework, and metallicize their body until 
they reach their "Idealized form." The Drifter is walking the path of cybernetics, replacing nerves with 
wires to ensure their own survival or experience the rush of enhanced strength and endurance.
	But every addiction has its cost. Cybernetics aren't cheap, and even if they can afford them, 
"Legal" cybernetics usually don't have the same rush. Suggesting that the Drifter didn't sign up to be a 
full conversion - replacing flesh with steel for everything but the fragments of brain goo that remain. 

ATTRIBUTE
Partial
Full Borg
Anima
-
-
Bravado
D4
-
Comprehension
D6
D6
Finesse
D8
D8
Hardiness
D8
D12
Power
D8
D12
Speed
D8
D12
WIllpower
D4
D4



Endurance
+1d8 / CL
Note
Health
+2 / CL
Note
Karma
2
0
Potential
-25%
-75%
ESP / MP
-
-
Transfer
4
6
Learning Rate
3
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Cybernetics
Electronics and 
Mechanics
Trained
Lore: Cybernetics
Cultural
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Cyberdoctoring
Medical
Trained
Electronic Warfare
Military
Trained
Formal Science: Math
Sciences
Trained
Bodybuilding
ATB
ATB



Partial Conversion or Full Borg? - 	Cyborgs may elect to be either a 
Partial Conversion or a Full Conversion Cyborg.
	Partial Conversion Cyborgs select two Attributes, making 
them Mechanical as well as rolling for the quality of their Cybertronik 
with a [D4+1]. This Cybernetic of Real Quality is added to the selected 
Attribute.
	Full Conversion Borgs have replaced a majority of their body 
with Cybernetics, leading to being barely human to begin with. They 
are considered to be MD Capable as their skin is entirely metallic with 
their Finesse, Hardiness, Power, and Speed being Mechanical with a 
[D6] Real  Cybertronik Enhancement.

Cybernetic Stress Enhancement - 	Cyborgs are built to endure the 
harsh reality of cybernetic implants. They begin with [HRD + 10] 
Cybernetic Stress instead. Every 3 Ranks, they may increase their 
Cybernetic Stress by +1d6 as their body becomes more acclimated to 
Cybernetic enhancements.
	Full Conversion Borgs treat this as a time to also upgrade their 
Endurance, their body coming to terms with their new metallic shell. 



Cyberdawn - Cyborgs are drawn to the need to 
always enhance their bodies. Partial Conversion 
Cyborgs may undergo the Full Conversion Procedure 
for a cost of 6,000 to 12,000 Credits depending on the 
location and quality of the doctors. 
	Full Conversion Cyborgs do not heal 
naturally nor do they improve their Health naturally. 
They must either repair themselves or have someone 
else repair them to recover their Endurance and 
Health. However, due to their augmentations, they 
begin with an 4d10+20 Endurance and 1d10+5 Health. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond or Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 Credits

Signature Focus: Cybernetics

Transfer Requirements: Mechanical Attribute or 
Cybernetic Enhancements

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation

Dragon Hatchling (Racial)
Wyverns, Dunks, Eggeyes, Wigglers, Emergency Rations
	Dragons are majestic, massive flying creatures that roost where they please and horde what 
they wish. Each Dragon is unique, all of them coming back to the Errant Earth after their long tenure 
away from the planet. Ironically enough, battles between Dragons only occur because one manages 
to come through a Tear, fighting one another for supremacy of this new world that they seem to 
inhabit.
	Dragons exhibit a vast wisdom and boundless intelligence matched only by their ego. They 
believe they are simply superior to others, which considering the smallest adults tend to be the size of 
houses exhibiting magical or even psychic powers, they may be correct. Dragon Hatchlings are born 
of the isolated clutches that have been cropping up over the world - the few being born near 
Earthblood vents or in the delicate care of one of the Dragon's many "Flesh Hoard" attendants. After 
about a week of waddling around and in constant care, they'll take off with their rudimentary wings 
and begin exploring, determining what their own hoard will be.

ATTRIBUTE
Dice
Anima
D8
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D10
Power
D10
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1d8 / CL
Health
+2 / 2 CL
Karma
1
Potential
+50%
ESP / MP
+1d10 / Rank
Transfer
12
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Language: Draconic
Cultural
Perfect
Appraisal
Cultural
Trained
Scouter
Military
Hobby
Astra Knowledge
Science
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Any
Magic (If Awakened)
Trained
Any
Psychic (If Awakened)
Trained



Draconic Features - Dragons are by their nature MD Creatures, 
converting all of their Endurance and Health into MD Capable 
protection. In addition every 3 Ranks they select another Attribute 
to gain Supernatural Potential. However, due to being a Dragon 
Hatchling, most armor must be custom made for them to have 
any serious protection.
All Dragon Hatchlings begin at the [Small] Size and increase their 
size by one step at Rank 12 .

Wings - Dragon Hatchlings begin with powerful wings that may 
carry themselves in flight. If they have a Strength Modifier of 15+, 
they may wear armor and still be able to fly if fitted correctly. 

Claws & Bites - Dragon Hatchlings possess powerful claws and 
teeth for chewing prey, they are Unarmed Attacks that deal 2d6 
Standard Damage or 1 Mega Damage. At Rank 5, this increases to 
4d6 SD and 1d6 MD. At Rank 10, this increases entirely to 4d6 MD.

Elemental Dragon - Dragons 
have a gland located in their 
gut which produces and stores 
energy, projecting it out in a 
spew. Depending on the 
Dragon Hatchling's Color, this 
may have different Elemental 
Effects. 
This deals 1d10 MD Damage 
with a Range of 0 with the 
[Stagger] and [Natural].
Metallic Dragons trend toward 
noble creatures. Chromatic and 
more Egotistical. Whisker 
Dragons are extremely solitary.

Red
Fire
Black
Acid
Blue
Ice
Purple
Sonic
Whisker 
White
Psychic
Gold
Fire
Green
Poison
Silver
Ice
Whisker Black
Magic



Starting Equipment Package: None
 
Starting Wealth: 1d8 Credits (In Shiny Rocks, Scrap, or Baubles)

Signature Focus: Draconic Ancestry
Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation



?
Exo (Racial)
Xeno, Aeven, Jumper, Others
	It's impossible to nail down Exos in a succinct fashion, there are thousands, perhaps millions, of 
different species that now walk the Errant Earth hailing from far off worlds or alien dimensions. The 
"Exo" is a name assigned to all of them - a quick way to point at "the Other." Some wear the term with 
pride, understanding they are strangers in a strange land just as much as everyone else. Others see it 
as a grave insult, their families have been in their world for generations and to be seen as little more 
than an invader is an insult.
	Drifters who come from these disparate groups usually take up life out of necessity. Fresh Exos 
are lost in a world that doesn't know what they are, while those who have ties here still bear the 
unfortunate stigma of not being human. Whether they wish to change it, embrace it, or simply wander 
is up to them.

ATTRIBUTE
Die
Anima
Note
Bravado

Comprehensio
n

Finesse

Hardiness

Power

Speed

WIllpower



Endurance
Note
Health
Note
Karma
Note
Potential
Note
ESP / MP
Note
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
Note


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Language: Native 
Language
Cultural
Perfect
Lore: Species
Cultural
Perfect
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby



Thousand and One Worlds - The Drifter consults the Species 
Creation System in the Appendix to create their customized 
Exo Species. This will determine all of the base Attributes that 
the Drifter has to work with.
After creating their idealized Species, the Drifter will then 
calculate how many Ranks they must remain as the Species 
before being automatically Transferred out.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d3 x 15 Credits

Signature Focus: Exo Species Features

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation

New World Bible - Exo Genesis
The first Exos appeared on the Errant Earth 
around 350 Years Ago when the first major 
Tears became common. From there, anytime a 
Leyline Pops, a Tear Opens, or Random 
Happenstance - Exos will be transported here. 
This has created a diaspora of other worlds and 
cultures, quickly blending together with our 
worldÅfs.
Aliens learn to play rock and roll. Fantastic 
Dwarves replace most of their body with 
cybernetics, the elder dryads work in botanical 
gardens alongside scientists. 
While the Coalition may believe the ÅgExo ThreatÅh 
is always there. Many Exo have become just as 
human as the rest of us, with the same issues.

?
Giant (Qualifier)
Jotun, Ettin, Large Lads, Ogres
	The Drifter is a large one, larger than even their (supposed) kinsman or perhaps they were 
always destined for wide berth and heavy load. Giants aren't common on the Errant Earth, but small 
communities of natural giants, freaks, and other deformities occur every once in a while to warrant 
them being separated out.
	Giants grow large and heavy, their body breaking and reforming to compensate for the rapid 
weight gain and gravity pulling them down. Or it just gets stronger as their size increases. Who's to say 
really?


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D12
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D4
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D12
Power
D12
Speed
-
WIllpower
D12


Endurance
+1d10 / CL
Health
+1d6 / 2 CL
Karma
1
Potential
+5 Magic
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Bodybuilding
ATB
ATB
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Outdoorsmanship
Wilderness
Trained
Intimidation
People
Hobby
Tracking
Wilderness
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained



Growth - The GiantÅfs size and girth has been growing steadily 
over the years. Every 5 Ranks the Giant increases their Size by 
one step. The Giant may elect to commit to this Background 
to achieve the Size they wish automatically . 

Square Cube Law - The GiantÅfs strength grows proportional 
to their size. Every 3 Ranks the Giant may increase  their 
Power or Hardiness by +1d6. The GiantÅfs Power and Hardiness 
is considered to be Augmented. At Rank 9, these increase to 
Supernatural.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Wilderness Pack
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: Markings

Transfer Requirements: Not Possible

Standard Transfer : Occupation of Choice


?
Juiced (Trait)
Juicers, Nutters, Elysian
	There are the haves and have-nots, two groups that define all of societies across every 
conceivable time and space. But to offer one of those unfortunate have-nots something to make them 
better, a way to take the edge off, one single hit to make them immortal for a minute and feel the 
rush to keep them going. The first hit is always free, the second, third, and each one after demands a 
little bit more and a little less in return. In the cities theyÅfre called Juicers, in less developed areas, 
theyÅfre Elysians, and most other places theyÅfre known by what they are: Addicts with Power.
	Juiced Drifters have been on their preferred enhancement for a while now, and the reaper is 
making rounds with every shot in the heart to make even the weakest man a hero when needed. 
Getting Juiced is expensive and many venture out to get paid to keep juicing, others know that their 
addiction needs them to wander, less something pops at the wrong time. Regardless of the reason, 
donÅft fear the reaper when he comes knocking.

ATTRIBUTE
Die
Anima
D6
Bravado
D10
Comprehensio
n
D4
Finesse
D10
Hardiness
D10
Power
D10
Speed
D10
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d12 / CL
Health
+2 / CL
Karma
0
Potential
-50%
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Lore: Addictive 
Substances
Cultural
Trained
Streetwise
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby



The Juice -  The Drifter takes a special substance that 
empowers them and keeps them going. They must choose 
one of the Juicer Variants to be addicted to.
Åú	Vampiris - Less of a drug and more of a condition, 
the Drifter needs to to drink the blood of others to 
keep their body going.
Åú	Turbo - Turbo is an addictive chemical agent given 
to athletes, mercenaries, and anyone needing to 
move fast, act faster, and stop thinking in the 
meantime.
Åú	JAX - A surgical implant delivers a constant stream 
of JAX pumped directly into the veins and nervous 
system. Their muscles are bigger, their body is 
tougher, they feel invincible.
Åú	Hussar - An old-world super soldier serum improved 
upon and administered by the major powers. Though 
many tend to burn out before long. 


The Rush -  The DrifterÅfs Juice grants them a number of 
bonuses as long as they are taking the required amount.
Åú	Vampiris - +2d6 Bravado, +1d4 Finesse, Hardiness, 
and Power. Supernatural Bravado, Augmented 
Finesse, Hardiness, and Power.
Åú	Turbo - +3d6 Speed, +2d6 Finesse, +2 Auto-Dodge, 
+2 Auto-Parry. Supernatural Speed and Finesse.
Åú	JAX - +3d6 Hardiness, +2d6 Power, +3d6 Endurance, 
and +1d6 Health. Supernatural Hardiness and Power.
Åú	Hussar - +2d6 Comprehension. Finesse, Hardiness, 
Power, and Speed. All Attributes Augmented. 
The Sting -  If the Drifter is ever taking an excess amount of 
their Juice, they will gain their particular poisonÅfs Sting.
Åú	Vampiris - Add a +5 / +25% Bonus to all Saves or 
People Skill Checks.
Åú	Turbo - Gain +10 to Personal Initiative, +2 Movement.
Åú	JAX - Become Mega Damage Capable.
Åú	Hussar - Add a +5 to all Combat Skill Checks


The Addiction -  The Drifter is an addict to their particular 
Juice, demanding they take a dose during the intervals 
needed of them. If they cannot, theyÅfll start undergoing 
Withdrawal. 
Åú	Vampiris (1 Cup of Blood / Day) - Vampiris Juicers 
need a full cup of blood a day to get their fix. 
Requiring double the amount from Non-Fresh 
Sources (i.e. Blood Packs or Dead Bodies). 
Åú	Turbo (1 Hit / Week) - Turbo is equal parts huff and 
an injection into the veins. 
Åú	JAX (1 Hit / 12 Hours) - Morning and night the JAX 
addict needs their fix or risk their muscles burning 
out.
Åú	Hussar (Go Juice Bottle / Month) - Go Juice is a 
stimulant targeting the DrifterÅfs modified Bio-
Chemistry. ItÅfs expensive and valuable, controlled by 
only the most elite institutions. 

Golden God -  The more the Drifter takes, the better they 
feel, isnÅft it obvious what they have to do?
Åú	Vampiris - Increase BRV by +1d4 every 3 Ranks
Åú	Turbo - Increase SPD by +1d4 every 3 Ranks.
Åú	JAX - Increase HRD by +2 and Endurance by +1d6 
every 3 Ranks
Åú	Hussar - Increase any Attribute by +1d4 every 3 
Ranks.

The Withdrawal-  When the Drifter misses their Juice hit, 
theyÅfll enter Withdrawal. There are four stages of Withdrawal: 
Light, Heavy, Crippling, and Detox.

Vampiris

Light
Demeanor is considered four steps worse than normal.
Heavy
Bravado, Finesse, Hardiness, and Power are considered 
to be at half their regular value.
Crippling
Must make a WIL Save (-5) to resist attacking someone 
who is bleeding.

Turbo

Light
Lose all Auto-Dodge and Auto-Parry from Turbo.
Heavy
Reduce Pace by half, rounding down. If this would make 
it 0, set it to .25 instead.
Crippling
The Drifter loses the ability to walk unassisted. 

JAX

Light
Every missed dose deals 3d6 SD directly to Endurance 
and then Health.
Heavy
All Physical Actions are considered to be at -8 / -40% 
until a dose is taken.
Crippling
The Drifter enters a coma for 1d6 Days.

HUSSAR

Light
-5 / -25% to all Actions as their limbs grow heavy and 
perception becomes unfocused.
Heavy
Lose all Weapon Proficiencies and Weapon 
Specializations due to chemical imbalances. 
Crippling
Endurance is set to 0 and cannot increase.

The Detox -   Once the Drifter has  gotten past the Crippling 
Withdrawal Effect, they are able to function normally enough 
and begin the Detox process. Detoxing fully takes (1d6 x Juice 
Addiction) Days to process. Until then, they must contend with 
the Light Withdrawal Condition only. If they successfully Detox, 
they are able to Transfer out of the Background.
Åú	Vampiris - Addiction 10 (+1d4 / Rank)
Åú	Turbo - Addiction 6 (+1d10 / Rank)
Åú	JAX - Addiction 15 (+1d6 / Rank)
Åú	Hussar - Addiction 250 (+50 / Rank)

DonÅft Fear the Reaper -  Once the Juiced Drifter begins 
walking this path, they know that spectre is coming faster 
than theyÅfd like to admit. Each Drifter has (30 + 1d6) Years to 
live after their initial procedure and addiction. Every Rank 
reduces these Years by 1, after Rank 6, it is reduced by 1d4 
instead. This process is halted upon Detoxing successfully. But 
they still have the number of years still looming above them.

 
Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 Credits

Signature Focus: Their Juice

Transfer Requirements: Begin taking the Juice or undergo the 
procedure.

Standard Transfer : Any
 
?
Lucky (Trait)
Gamblers, Fortunate Souls, Charmed Life
	Sometimes people are born with the right stars shining on them, the planets are in the correct 
position, the fates are playing the strings of destiny, and everything else seems to result in one thing: 
Luck. Life seems charmed for the Lucky ones, things tend to go ÅgrightÅh when they need it to, everything 
has a set of blessed circumstances that work in their favor. Though these are often the types to end 
up in the unluckiest of situations to only claw themselves out with that same unholy fortune. 
	Lucky Drifters are just that, lucky. At the best of times they are wanderers for their own, often 
completely unrelated, reasons but the extra kick has never let them down. They shouldnÅft be around 
cards or dice though, most are liable to be called cheaters with clean hands. But luck has a bad 
tendency to throw them into situations which demand they rely on it more often than not.

ATTRIBUTE
Die
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehensio
n
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
6
Potential
+25
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Trained
Gambling
Espionage & Rogue
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby



Dumb Luck - The Drifter has their lucky stars when they need 
them. Once per Session, the Drifter may either Flip the result of 
a Skill Check, treat it as if they rolled a Natural 20 on a Combat 
Check, or instantly Succeed at a Save of their choice. They gain 
an additional use of this ability every 5 Ranks.

Cosmic Balance - While fortune smiles on them, the Drifter also 
knows that it has a chance to bite back. Whenever a Lucky 
Drifter fails a Check, itÅfs especially catastrophic in what goes 
horribly wrong.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Civilian
 
Starting Wealth: 1d100 * 1d10  Credits

Signature Focus: Nothing but their Lucky Stars

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation


?
Mell (Racial)
Leisure Suits, Bunraku, Dolls, Succubus / Incubi
	There is no such thing as the ÅgPerfect Partner,Åh but the Malibu Pharmatronik corporation in the 
old world came close to making one in the form of the Mell. Mell are the civilian offshoot of the Adonis 
Super Soldier Program - Human 2, the Sequel, they promised. Though the advertisements end just as 
fast. What scattered programs showed a small set actually were shipped as Biodroid Companions, but 
the labs kept pumping out the genetic partner for clients that no longer exist.
	The Mell of today are perfect, too perfect, their skin too fine, voice too lovely, their feelings too 
rich. They fall in love quickly and their nature is to serve others, but endless copies will inevitably 
produce deviants. Deviants who can blend into a population with ease, their body and mind adapting 
to those around them. Perhaps all Mell are deviant in their own way, more so than others. 

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D10
Bravado
D12
Comprehensio
n
-
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+1 / 4 CL
Karma
1
Potential
-50%
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Charm
People
Trained
Domestic Work
Cultural
Hobby
Empathy
People
Trained
Intelligence Gathering
Espionage & Rogue
Hobby
Wardrobe
Cultural
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
People
Trained
Language: Any
Cultural
Trained
Social Sciences: Any
Science
Trained
Masochist
ATB
ATB



 
IÅfm Just Mell - The Drifter has an uncanny ability for others to just . . . like them 
more. Every 2 Ranks they gain +1 to their Demeanor Rating. 

Built For Pleasure - The DrifterÅfs body, mind, breath, and soul have been 
created to appeal to others. Their Bravado is considered Augmented and they 
have +1d4 Bonus BRV every 4 Ranks.  
 
Starting Equipment Package: Civilian
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Perfection, Fashion, Genetic, Idealization

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Expert


?
Mutant (Qualifier)
Muties, Half-Shells, Genefreaks, Blessed Ones
	Even before the end of the world, the world had been playing with the human condition in 
more than one way - in the megacities and their ancient sewers there lied those with tainted blood, 
freaks born in labs and rejected. After the bombs fell these undergrounders emerged to be greeted 
by their even more deformed variants. Tainted Blood soon became Blessed Blood and soon the term 
ÅgMutantÅh was being used to refer to anyone with equal parts horrid conditions and blessings from on 
high.
	Drifters who were born as mutants often seek the victories and peculiarities of the world like 
anyone else, their body may churn with tumorous masses and arms twitch uneasily, but few can 
match their adaptability. However, others have only recently turned, their body betraying itself to 
distort in strange directions and force unnatural movements. Whatever the reason they wander, 
mutants are a fact of life in society, if not a welcome one.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+2 / 2 CL
Karma
4
Potential
+20
ESP / MP
+1d4 / CL
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Disguise
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Sign Language: Local 
Mutant
Technical
Perfect
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Banter
People
Trained
Salvage Operations
Technical
Trained
LoganÅfs Loophole
ATB
ATB




New World Bible - Mankind v2
Mutants have developed into different sects 
defined by region, ideology, and past prejudices 
by others. Some weird common features of 
Mutant Communities across all of them . . .

Mutant Sign Language - Not every mutant can be 
lucky to be able to hear or body parts start to fail at 
inopportune times. Mutant Sign Language is unique to 
every community, but it's mandatory to learn.

Feral / Freak Animosity - Old World Mutations were 
primarily based on animal modifications - tails, ears, 
some senses or worse. These have persisted to the 
modern day and have a ÅgnobilityÅh over the others. 
Freaks are the new-worldÅfs monster with melting skin, 
corrosive blood, and other freakish designs. The two 
are almost always at odds, but begrudgingly live 
together. Perhaps out of spite.

Tainted Bloodlines - The DrifterÅfs blood tingles with mutagenic growths, 
expressing itself at seemingly random times. Every Rank the Drifter 
acquires 3 Species Rating Points to spend to further develop their 
mutagenic powers. If the Drifter is starting as a Mutant, they may  take 10 
Species Rating Points worth of mutations immediately.

Primordial - The DrifterÅfs body is in a constant state of shifting flux, as 
such the Drifter adds a Mutagenic Expression every 3 Ranks, increasing 
their Human Deviation by +1d4. If the Drifter begins as a Mutant, they may 
select a Mutagenic Bloodline.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 15 Credits

Signature Focus: Mutation, Changing, Evolution

Transfer Requirements: If the Drifter acquires a Mutation during play.

Standard Transfer : Any

Myrmidon (History)
Warchild, Chromedomes, Enforcers, Crusader
	War, war never changes. In the years following the Collapse, it's no surprise children would be 
born into the crucible of conflict. Then the dozen generations. Each one growing more and more 
adept of turning the young into warriors, killers, fighters without remorse. Isolated warrior cults raising 
their young as a communal group, military academies staffed by elite members of the warlord,  and 
even those raised by veterans of long forgotten wars, fearing what may be the next one.
	The Drifter was born into the life of a warrior, watching others be culled by the vicious march of 
the enemies at the gate. Why do they wander now? Perhaps that was their destiny all along to survive 
in the vast stretches of nothing punctuated by civilization. Perhaps they broke, that mental 
conditioning and rigor being drawn toward something else for a split second. Regardless of the 
reason, their instincts have honed them to this war, whether they wished for it or not. 

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D4
Bravado
-
Comprehensio
n
D10
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d8 / CL
Health
+1d4 / 1 CL
Karma
2
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
5


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Boot Camp
ATB
ATB
Land Navigation
Wilderness
Trained
Armory
Military
Trained
Scouter
Military
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Military
Trained



 
Ares Touched - The DrifterÅfs history has molded them into a trained 
killing machine. Every 3 Ranks the Drifter gains a new Weapon Proficiency.

Always Prepared - The Drifter has been training their entire life for a 
moment to use these skills.. At Rank 4, 6, and 10 the Drifter gains a new 
Weapon Specialization.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 25 Credits

Signature Focus: Military, Regimented, Formal

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms
Mystic (Trait)
Earth Touched, Aetherborne, Witchblood
	Magic touches everyone differently, it flows nicely through some, while others it forces and 
surges through the bloodstream like a bullet. Mystics are those who have been submerged into magic 
from either a young age or through recent (often poor) experiences. Every Mystic takes the 
experience differently, others unknown of the future effects while others start cursing the nature of 
magic itself. Mystics themselves radiate power and in turn have the nature to see other phenomena 
easier.
	Mystics who enter the life of the Drifter do so out of their own volition, more of a fact of life than 
an active part about them. Some seek work as exorcists in a never ending war against magicians, 
others become magicians themselves to discover the source of their mystic powers. Regardless of the 
reason, the Drifter will have no shortage of work.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D4
Bravado
D6
Comprehensio
n
D8
Finesse
D4
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
3
Potential
+50 Magic
ESP / MP
+1d6 / CL
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Tear Knowledge
Science
Trained
Any
Magic (If Awakened)
Trained


Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 50 Credits

Signature Focus: Mystical, Atheistic, 
Magic

Transfer Requirements: Be close to 
an Earthblood Geyser or Wound 
when it opens.

Standard Transfer : Adventurer or 
Magic


Sense of Magic - The Drifter is trained in 
detecting and understanding the world of 
powers around them. When they take this 
Occupation, the Acolyte has Sense Magic 
(35+3%) allowing them to have the sixth sense to 
detect Magic Phenomenon. 
At CL 3 they increase their Development to +10% 
to their Sense of Magic as their bodies grow 
more accustomed to it. At CL 6, they Ace their 
Sense of Magic. 
.
Sparking Blood - The MysticÅfs body has been 
altered by magic and makes them prone to 
further development.
Åú	If the Drifter has Awoken their Potential - 
The Mystic gains an extra +[WIL] MP at 
Rank 4, Rank 8, and Rank 12
Åú	If the Drifter has Not Awoken their 
Potential - The Mystic has a +1 to Magic 
Resistance, this increases by +1 every 4 
Ranks.
Sparking Blood will lose its Magic Resistance 
bonuses, converting all Magic Resistance to MP.


Noble (Trait)
Count, Duke, Lord, Brats, Silverbloods
	Where there are peasants, a lord must be nearby. Nobility in the age after the end of the world 
is a hard thing to muster. Older stories tell of courts of jesters and knights, but others begin to blur 
between royal titles and industrial surnames. The Nobility of the Post-Collapse are just as disparate, 
some live in makeshift castles and rule a fiefdom with their knights gilded in power armor, others are 
part of the aristocratic upper class, sipping on the blood of the working man, but the most prevalent 
are the modern Silverblood - wealthy preferred citizens of anywhere they go, owning land, territory, 
water, or anything else to survive in this new world.
Å@Å@Å@Why would any of these people take up the role of a Drifter. Most donÅft, living with the luxury of 
hiring them more often than not. The ones that do have something to prove, a reason to throw off the 
shackles of expectation, or more likely escaping ones they were never meant to remove.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D8
Bravado
D10
Comprehensio
n
D10
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 4 CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Literacy: American
Culture
Perfect
Memetics
Culture
Trained
Wardrobe
Culture
Trained
Diplomacy
People
Core
Etiquette
People
Core
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Dueling
Military
Trained
Empathy
People
Core
Command
People
Core
Charm
People
Core


Starting Equipment Package: High 
Society
 
Starting Wealth: 3d6 x 100 Credits

Signature Focus: Leadership, 
Majesty, Feudal, [Trade or Lore]

Transfer Requirements: Earn an official 
title or recognition as a ÅgPower PlayerÅh in 
society.

Standard Transfer : Expert



Circles - The Drifter is particularly gifted in the art of Ågsociety,Åh mixing and 
mingling with power players and the movers of their circle. When this 
Background is selected, the Drifter writes down a ÅgCircleÅh who listens to 
them. They gain another Circle every 3 Ranks.
Whenever they are interacting with a leader or official inside of their 
Circle., they gain a +1 to their Demeanor. This increases by +1 every 3 
Ranks.
If the Drifter begins as a Noble, they gain a Second Circle automatically.
.
A Name to Uphold - The Drifter has a legacy to uphold, something that 
they will either need to reject or embrace to finish their story. The Drifter 
gains a Trade or Lore Skill of their Choice specifically tied to their 
background. 
Every 3 Ranks, they may apply a new Skill Tag to that Trade or Lore Skill. 
If Noble was taken as the first Background - apply a Skill Tag 
automatically. 



?
Null (Qualifier)
Skinwalkers, Psi-Hunters, Soul Vampires
	Once in a while, a large Psychic community will produce a Null. They will know almost 
immediately by the silence in the childÅfs mind and the darkness behind their eyes. Nulls are a mutant 
offshoot of Psychics, their mind a closed casket for the psychic phenomenon around them and 
developing an ability to hunt down their kindred better. Nulls can also be made from those who have 
had psychic brain damage, their body readjusting for a thirsting hunger to destroy those things or 
gnaw at the power that now dwindle
	A Null Drifter isnÅft an uncommon sight, the wandering vagabond who discomforts most 
everyone around them to some degree, a lethal disquiet that is only broken by the slow questions for 
work or waving around a flyer with some target they are hunting. Perhaps they are simply the 
quintessential human - driven to the edge of sanity.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D10
Bravado
-
Comprehensio
n
D10
 Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d4/ 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2  CL
Karma
0
Potential
-35 Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d4
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Psychics
Culture
Core
Intelligence Gathering
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Psychology
Medical
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic (If Awakened)
Trained
Scouter
Military
Core
Psycho Phenomenon
Science
Core
Tracking
Wilderness
Trained
Brain Fried
ATB Skill
ATB Skill



Sense of Psychic Power - The Drifter is trained in detecting and 
understanding the world of powers around them. When they take 
this Occupation, the Null has Sense Psychic Powers (35+3%) 
allowing them to have the sixth sense to detect Psychic 
Phenomenon. 
At CL 3 they increase their Development to +10% to their Sense of 
Psychic Powers as their bodies grow more accustomed to it. At CL 6, 
they Ace their Sense of Psychic Powers

Mindhunter - The Null has a natural affinity for dealing with their 
Psychic Kinsman. If the Target has ESP, the Null has a +1 to their 
Combat Checks against them. This increases by +1 every 5 Ranks. In 
addition, if the Null defeats a Psychic in Melee and kills them, they 
automatically perform an instant Devouring on the Psychic. 
. 
Disquiet - Nulls have a tendency to invoke a certain air of disquiet 
about them, others find them disturbing and others mystically 
enthralling. Their Demeanor decreases by two for everyone, but 
among Psychics it is decreased by four naturally. 
Emperor in Chains - The Null has closed off their Inland 
Emperor, restricting access to any and everyone. These 
effects occur every 3 Ranks.
Åú	Gain +1 to their Psychic Resistance
Åú	Impart a -10% on others reading their mind or 
interacting with them mentally.
Åú	Lose 1d6 Permanent ESP.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 25 Credits

Signature Focus: Void, Nothingness, Empty, Psychic

Transfer Requirements: Earn the Brain Fried ATB or 
gain a Scar from a Psychic attack.

Standard Transfer : Expert


New World Bible - Psychic Nulls
It may seem strange to witness a Psychic with Null Qualities, but it does occur in small populations or 
if the Null experiences especially harrowing events in their youth. To a Psychic Null, the world is a 
deafening silence, nothing comes in or out without forcing its way through the mental barriers that 
protect the mind. At first the frequent migraines and loss of limb function lead to many condemning 
themselves to a drugged life to keep one part of their mind in check.
Others who persevere live as a judas inside their own communities, the perfect hunter able to 
masquerade as a sheep for long enough to strike. Many hide it to fit in, live a normal life and resist 
the sadistic impulses that make them want to hurt their neighbors. Instead many embrace their part 
in society. Wherever Psychics work, a Null will be among them, watching, waiting, hunting for one 
misstep from one of their kin to cut them down in a moment. 

?
Nutype (Racial)
Aspirants, Sparklers, Melts
	Psychics have a unique relationship among one another, physical connection is difficult, a 
sensation that rides the lightning of their spine and mental awareness as two people melt into one 
another in a psychic headspace rather than anything regarding traditional romance. Normally, 
children born of these unions grow up and often develop their Psychic Potential at a young age with 
their parents guidance. In recent years, Nutypes have begun to appear - children born of Psychic 
relationships that are gifted with their Psychic Potential unleashed. Their body and senses dulled 
through the constant reinforcement and support of their latent Psychic powers.
	Nutypes who strike out from the private psychic enclaves are oddities among their kin, taking 
up a life of the wandering vagabond is something reserved for more active people as their parents 
would say. But thatÅfs never stopped someone before, especially when they are as gifted as they are.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D12
Bravado
D8
Comprehensio
n
D4
 Finesse
D4
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 4  CL
Karma
3
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d10
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Psychics
Culture
Core
Psycho Phenomenon
Science
Core
Bodily Control
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained

 

Physical Enhancement Training - The Nutype has been using their psionics to 
enhance their physical form since they were children. The Drifter may spend 1 
ESP to increase Finesse, Hardiness, Power, or Speed by +1 for a Scene. They 
may add [Rank x 2 ] bonuses to these Checks.
The Nutype is still limited by their Potential during this time.

Cogito, Ergo Sum - The Nutype has two Latent Power during Drifter Creation. 
Every 3 Ranks they may develop an additional Latent Power or apply a Skill 
Tag to one they already possess. 

Nutype Physique - Nutypes are thin and lanky, a property of using their 
Psychic Powers since birth modifying their body. They automatically lose -2 to 
their Finesse, Hardiness, Power, and Speed.
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Psychic Powers

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Psychic

?
Primal (History)
Savages, Tribals, Ferals, Wild Men
	When society crumbles, the law of the jungle takes its place. When the world was lost in chaos 
and ash, those who had the know-how to survive off the land did so, while some became 
homesteaders and community builders behind thick walls and heavy guns, others reverted back to 
more pure society. ÅgThe SavagesÅh cover a large swath of people who have lived off the land longer 
than most and have adapted to the Errant Earth beside it - an individual who has been molded by the 
barbaric world they live in to become attuned to its wisdom and wrathful in their struggles.
	Primal Drifters are common, wandering types who appear in a flash, adorned in skin made of 
alien leather and tools crafted from the teeth of forgotten beasts. Civilization is weak to them, gaudy 
and worthless, strength is what matters and on the Errant Earth - perhaps they are right.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D4
Bravado
D8
Comprehensio
n
D4
 Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d12 / 2 CL
Health
+1 /  CL
Karma
2
Potential
+10 Magic
ESP / MP
+1d4
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Holistic Medicine
Medical
Hobby
Land Navigation
Wilderness
Trained
Monster Hunter
Military
Trained
Scouter
Military
Trained
Bushcraft
Wilderness
Trained
Naturalism
Wilderness
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Stealth
Espionage & Rogue
Trained



Sword & Bone - Primals have adapted to the natural world and the 
cheap gear it provides. Primals begin with Archaic Melee Weapon 
Proficiency or Archaic Ranged Weapon Proficiency.  
 
Starting Equipment Package: Wilderness
 
Starting Wealth: 1d3 x 5 In Barterable Baubles

Signature Focus: Savagery, Barbaric, Individual

Transfer Requirements: One-Year in the Wild, Cut off from Civilization.

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms


?
Professional (History)
They DonÅft Need Any, TheyÅfre just Professional.
	Some people are simply more cut out for positions than others, and anyone worth their weight 
in scrap knows it. It wouldnÅft take long for ÅgProfessionalsÅh to start reappearing after the apocalypse, 
each one touting some of their skills or abilities that theyÅfve mastered above everyone else. Doing their 
job better than most with a wink and a smile to boot. Not to say theyÅfre especially beloved or well-
known, some wish to even keep it that way depending on their position and way they want to do 
things. 
	Professional Drifters, an oxymoron in itself, is the roving mystery that appears one day in town 
to tell everyone about their secret way of doing things. Inevitably theyÅfll either be begged to stay or 
run out within the next few hours depending on their demeanor and profession. Though a Professional 
always knows when to beat a hasty retreat. 

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehensio
n
D6
 Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Hobby
Any 
Any
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby



Absolute Pro - Professionals are good, real good at their job. 
Every four Ranks, the Professional gains two Skill Tags they may 
apply to any Core Skills and one Skill Tag they may apply to any 
Trained Skill.

One-And-One-Third-Trick Pony - The Professional may 
increase one of their Core Skills by +10% every 5 Ranks. They are 
just that good at them. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Signature Skills

Transfer Requirements: 15 Core Skills

Standard Transfer : Expert


?
Psychonaut (Trait)
Lunatic, Psycho, Pan Head, Lightbulb
	Psychics have it easy, they have it simple, when they say jump other people do. Craving that 
kind of power is human, both deeply misleading and dangerous to think about. Some of these 
hopefuls, dreaming of the fast way to power, undertake a dangerous medical procedure, what that 
will awaken your Psychic Potential - for a cost of course. Fifteen plates are screwed in at certain points, 
each tagging a different neural center. Each plate conducts the impulses as performed by the 
Psychosurgeon himself, removing, editing, and breaking apart the mind to repair it again. If they come 
out of this surgery alive, they are Psychics, communicating with their Inland Emperor. If they do not, 
then perhaps they were never gifted to be one anyway.
	Drifters who have undertaken the Psychonaut procedures are psychics born into a new world 
with little explanation. They empower themselves greatly, but stagnate compared to "Natural" 
Psychics. Though this only feeds deeper into the delusions and madness that claims them all . . .


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
1
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d4
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Psychics
Cultural
Core
Lore: Psychonauts
Cultural
Trained
Shivers
Psychic
Core
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Bodily Control
ATB
ATB



The Troubles of a False Empire - Psychonauts are gradually growing 
more insane as they develop, their body and psychic self tearing one 
another apart to adapt to the new reality. Starting at Rank 3, the 
Psychonaut develops a Thoughtform Personality that "takes over" the 
body for a time. Thoughtforms know about one another and their 
condition, they are still "The Drifter" in just a more enhanced or 
obsessive angle.
While this illness of the mind haunts them, each Skill that manifests is 
immediately Aced and applies a second Skill Tag. 
If the Psychonaut was chosen at Drifter Creation, they start with one 
Thoughtform manifested with its associated bonuses.

Dreaming of the Inland Sea -The Psychonaut adds one Charge Power  
every 3 Ranks. 

Amid Dreams of Amber - The Psychonaut adds an additional Latent 
Power starting at Rank 3 every 3 Ranks.
Hyper Invasive Cybernetics - The Psychonaut 
procedure is an incredibly invasive cybernetic event, 
The DrifterÅfs maximum Cybernetic Stress is halved.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond 
 
Starting Wealth: 1d12 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Psychic, Cybernetics, Cerebral

Transfer Requirements: Undergo the Psychonaut 
Procedure (Average cost 15,000 Credits legally).

Standard Transfer : Expert or Psychic



Religious (History)
Cultist, Follower, Devoted
	When the old world fell to ruin and disaster seemed to engulf the world, many turned to religion 
for salvation. In the time where science and fantasy mingle with one another, it's a miracle the faiths of 
the old world have persevered in their own equally mutated state. Whether they worship a new order 
to the Errant Earth or devoted themselves to one of the vestiges of the old are yet to be seen.
	Drifters hailing from religious backgrounds tend to be either Pilgrims or Heretics. Pilgrims seek 
the promised lands, following the tenets of their God or Masters for the higher purpose in life. Heretics 
are escaping from that promised land, not often by their own accord. 


ATTRIBUTE
Clergy
Inquisitor
Anima
D8
D6
Bravado
D6
D4
Comprehension
D4
D6
Finesse
D4
D8
Hardiness
D6
D8
Power
D6
D6
Speed
D6
D6
WIllpower
D8
D8



Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
+1d10 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 3 CL
+1d6 / 3 CL
Karma
4
2
Potential
+35
+35
ESP / MP
+1d6
+1d6
Transfer
4
4
Learning Rate
3
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Religion of 
Choice
Cultural
Core
Banter
People
Trained
Etiquette
People
Trained
Trade: Religious
Cultural
Hobby
Diplomacy
People
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic (If Awakened)
Trained
Theurgy
Magic (If Awakened)
Core
Any
People
Trained
Banter
People
Core
Etiquette
People
Core
Trade: Religious
Cultural
Core



Sign of the Holy Heretic - Regardless of their affiliation, 
the Drifter has learned a hand sign or other indicator to 
identify their faith to those around them. If this means 
anything is to be seen.

Rigorous Doctrine - The Religious Drifter has practiced 
their faith's doctrine. They may apply a Skill Tag to any 
Skill of their choice to represent this upbringing. This 
occurs every 4 Ranks

Anathema - The DrifterÅfs upbringing confronted them 
with the great Sin, their Anathema. Regardless of their 
affiliations, the Drifter has a -2 to all WIL Saves against 
the anathema, but a +2 to Combat Checks against them. 
The Drifter must choose 1.
Åú	Devils & Demons
Åú	Exos
Åú	Magicians
Åú	Mutants
Åú	Normal People
Åú	Outsiders
Åú	Psychics. 
Åú	Robots & Cybernetics
Åú	Undead & Vampires
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond 
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 Credits

Signature Focus: Religion, Faith, Mysteries

Transfer Requirements: Join a religious community and follow its 
doctrines for 3-Years.

Standard Transfer : Any


Robot (Racial)
Androids, Bots, Clankers
	Technology of the old world was built on the back of labor, and labor made way for 
automation, and automation gradually became dominated by robots. Robotics development in the 
Pre-Collapse was high-end and efficient, every robot had a purpose and each of them could do it to 
the best of their abilities. Specializing further and further, they eventually became detached from 
even needing a human to actually repair them or interact with. Toiling away at a job that no fleshy 
hands wanted, or could, do. When the Collapse occurred, some were drafted to fight while others kept 
going in the toil, working day and night on their assigned task. By the time any of them realized it was 
over, they didnÅft really care all that much.
	Robot Drifters come in a few varieties, mostly those with programming thatÅfs gone haywire or if 
theyÅfve reinterpreted their orders long enough to come to the conclusion that Ågdoing whatever they 
wantÅh is just as valid as their original purpose. Others are built to purpose, built to wander the world in 
search for a purpose they may not have. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die
Anima
Note
Bravado

Comprehensio
n

Finesse

Hardiness

Power

Speed

WIllpower



Endurance
Note
Health
Note
Karma
Note
Potential
Note
ESP / MP
Note
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
Note


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Robotic Laws
Cultural
Perfect
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby



Robotica Sans Frontieres - The Drifter consults the Robot 
Creation System in the Appendix to create their customized 
Robotic Creation. This will determine all of the base Attributes 
that the Drifter has to work with.
After creating their idealized Robo Frame, the Drifter will then 
calculate how many Ranks they must remain as the Robot 
before being automatically Transferred out.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Robot

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer Into

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation


Rogue (History)
Criminal, Scoundrel, Rascal, Miscreant
	There are three universal constants in the world - the rich get richer, the poor remain poor, and 
there is always someone trying to change that. Of course that doesnÅft always mean that they are 
selfish or wicked, many Rogues are branded as such for their views or beliefs. Infamy comes fast to 
those willing to subvert the natural order or speak out against perceived injustices. Many more find 
themselves taking up the life to survive, preferring to operate in the shadows and back alleys than 
present themselves as an easy target.
	Rogue Drifters are more common than not, pushed out of their homes or pursuing their own life 
of crime to further their ambitions. The term criminals are bandied about often, but some may 
embody the myths and legends of noble rascals who strike out at the powers that be. Though many 
more turn out to be the blackguards they are made out to be.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
5
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Concealment
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Disguise
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Sleight of Hand
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Stealth
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Banter
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Any
People
Trained



Hobo Code - The Drifter has developed a quick way to recognize and be 
recognized by those who are friendly to their cause. The Drifter knows the 
various symbols and markings that indicate loyalties. 

ÅgSo YouÅfve Heard About Me . . .Åh - Rogues and scoundrels are close knit when 
they need to be. The Rogue gains the Skill. Infamous at 20 + 10%. It may be 
used to manipulate others based on reputation or perceived reputation.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond 
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 Credits

Signature Focus: Stealth, Criminal, Secrets

Transfer Requirements: Become a Criminal and Learn the Hobo Code.

Standard Transfer : Any

Spartan (Trait)
Soldier Boys, Hardhats, Bloodgulchers
	The Spartan Procedure takes place over the course of three days. The first day is a cocktail of 
drugs and stimulants to open every kind of pain receptor, sense, and overall aptitude the recipient has. 
The second is the invasive cybernetic procedure to replace various internal organs with their 
enhanced SPARTAN variant to keep their body functional and enhance their physical abilities. The 
third and final day is psychological conditioning, running hundreds, thousands, perhaps even millions of 
rapidfire combat simulations through the exhausted mind of the agonized recipient. Few survive the 
full procedure, fewer come out as they were. What remains is a SPARTAN, a person molded into 
becoming a quintessential killer, their minds scrambled and replaced with little more than killing intent.
	Spartans arenÅft made for everyone, those who undertake the procedure serve their tenure in 
militaries or find themselves battling in Splurgoth Slave Pits until they free themselves. Their bodies are 
molded to kill, their minds honed to a knifeÅfs edge, a darkness behind their eyes. Power comes at a 
price, and many argue a Spartan has no soul. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
-
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D4
Finesse
D10
Hardiness
D12
Power
D12
Speed
D10
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d12 / CL
Health
+2d4 / CL
Karma
0
Potential
-75
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Scouter
Military
Core
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Monster Hunter
Military
Trained

 

Wired Reflexes - The Drifter increases their Personal Initiative by 
+1 every two Ranks. Their body grows more and more agitated as 
they develop in power.

SPARTAN KILLER - The DrifterÅfs body has been so fundamentally 
altered by the procedure, their Finesse, Hardiness, Power, and 
Speed are considered Augmented. 

Hyper Invasive Cybernetics - The Spartan procedure is an 
incredibly invasive cybernetic event, The DrifterÅfs maximum 
Cybernetic Stress is halved.

The Ripper - The Spartan gains a Combat Speciality every 3 
Ranks. If the Drifter begins as a Spartan, they gain one 
immediately.
The Voices  - The Spartan procedure is mentally taxing 
and damning. The Drifter has a -3 to Psychic and Magic 
Saves against Mental Effects.
 

Starting Equipment Package: Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 Credits

Signature Focus: Emotional Death, Warriors, Gladiatorial

Transfer Requirements: Undergo the SPARTAN Procedure 
(250,000 Credits ÅgLegallyÅh) or captured by Splurgoth

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms Occupation
Trog (Racial)
Neanderthal, Apeman, Feral Men
	With the collapse of civilization, comes the collapse of healthy people and society. Drifters born 
as Trogs are the degenerated offspring of old humanity. Their features and more feral, body much 
larger, but a reduced capacity to think and enunciate clearly.
	In a new world of monsters and magic, perhaps the primal man may do better than most. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D8
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
-
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D10
Power
D10
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d8 / CL
Health
+1d5 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
+25 to Magic
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
5


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Iron Gut
ATB
ATB
Homesteading
Wilderness
Trained
Naturalism
Wilderness
Hobby 
Search
Espionage & Rogue
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Any
People
Trained
Any (If Awakened)
Magic
Trained



The Degenerated Man - Due to the TrogÅfs ÅgadvancedÅh 
physical makeup, they are considered to have Augmented 
Hardiness and Power. 

New World Adaptations - TrogÅfs are uniquely suited to 
survive in the savage and inhospitable places of the world. 
When first created, the Trog gains one New World Adaptation, 
then every 3 Ranks, the Trog chooses another New World 
Adaptations from the list below:
Åú	Savage Movement - The TrogÅfs body is uncanny in 
its movements, able to move through hostile, 
awkward or vertical terrain with ease as long as they 
are not wearing armor. 
Åú	Corpse Eaters - Desperate times call for desperate 
measures, the Trog may eat raw flesh of other 
creatures without feeling any ill effects.
Åú	Efficient Brain Processing - Rather than worry about 
complex thoughts, the Trog instead hyper focuses on 
what they actually care about. They may Ace any 
Skill they have.
Åú	Heavy Hands - The TrogÅfs unarmed attacks now 
deal an additional +3 damage. 
Åú	Inland Chieftain - As a survival mechanism, the Trog 
may immediately Awaken as a Psychic.
Åú	Advanced Grunting - Trogs encounter monsters and 
Exos frequently, they gain the Grunting (50 + 12%) 
Skill to perform rudimentary communication with 
creatures who do not speak the same language (or 
at all).

Starting Equipment Package: Wilderness Pack
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 Credits

Signature Focus: Markings, Totems

Transfer Requirements: Not Possible

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms, Adventurers, Magic (If 
Awakened), or Psychic (If Awakened)
 
Undead (Racial)
Corpse, Zombie, Shambler
	Death is a transitory for most, and unfortunately for the Drifter, it seems to not have stuck. 
Undeath is a condition in which an individualÅfs spirit is unable to successfully pass beyond the veil of life 
and death, instead being forcefully bound or reanimated in a method to keep them alive. Many see 
the walking corpses as an abomination against the world, and most would be correct, as many end up 
as little more than shambling hordes or half-sentient ghosts bound to a place.
	The rare few able to maintain their mind and body become Drifters out of necessity, whether 
they are seeking to live the life that was denied to them or find a method to finally die is up to them. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D12
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D4
Hardiness
D10
Power
D4
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D12


Endurance
+1d12 / CL
Health
+1d8 / 3 CL
Karma
Note
Potential
+35
Transfer
7
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Astra Knowledge
Scientific
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any (If Awakened)
Psychic
Trained
Any (If Awakened)
Magic
Trained

 

Bound by Rags & Bone - When first becoming an Undead Drifter, they must 
select the type of their undeath that they are bound to.
Åú	Revenant - The Drifter has been reanimated inside of their own 
body, ÅgpossessingÅh themselves effectively. They maintain all of 
their base skills and abilities. They take double damage from Fire 
and Lux. 
Åú	Spirit - The Drifter has possessed ÅgsomethingÅh to act as their host 
body, while they maintain their mind, they do not maintain their 
original form. They take double damage from Ice and Umbros.
Åú	Reanimator - The DrifterÅfs original mind has long since passed, 
now in an unfamiliar body and uncanny skills from a mind that has 
long since dissipated. They take double damage from Dust and 
Hex.

Fate of the Damned - While death has not claimed the Drifter, their fate is 
slowly winding down toward them based on their type.
Åú	Revenant - The Drifter has a starting Karma of 4
Åú	Spirit - The Drifter has Karma of 2, but may decouple themselves 
from their possessed body for [ANM] Minutes as an intangible 
spiritual entity. They have Supernatural Anima. Can be detected 
by mediums or those traversing Astral Space.
Åú	Reanimator - The Drifter has Karma of 0, they are considered an 
MD entity. They have Supernatural Hardiness and Power

Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 Credits

Signature Focus: Undeath, Spiritual

Transfer Requirements: Drifter is killed and then 
resurrected.

Standard Transfer :All


?
Union (History)
Civilian, Paragons, Renegades
	Justice and freedom are the essential components of any healthy society, where the Coalition 
believes that one cannot exist without the other, the Union offers an alternative. The Union is the 
bastion of freedom that the Errant Earth needs, a place where Exo, Magician, Psychic, or Drifter can 
find a home that accepts them for who they are and survive together. The Union offers a system for 
the people by the people, all of the people of the Errant Earth are welcome into the Union as long as 
they are willing to contribute and safeguard the values it holds dear.
	Drifters often find themselves drawn to the Union, a safe haven in the chaos where it doesnÅft 
matter what their sins were or where their fate may take them. Those coming from the Union itself 
are free spirits, upholding the heroic virtues that the Union was built on. No matter how contradictory 
they may be.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained
Armory
Military
Trained
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Literacy: American
Cultural
Trained
Memetics
Cultural
Trained
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Any
Scientific
Trained



Freedom IsnÅft Free - The Drifter is considered a member of the 
Union, affording them a few benefits and a warm meal inside of 
their borders. Of course, the Union always needs help.

War Against Ignorance - Every 3 Ranks, the Drifter may add a 
Skill Tag to a Skill or their Choice. Must choose a different Skill 
each interval.

Tomorrow Legion -  The Union prides themselves on protecting 
its people from the creatures of Errant Earth that would like 
nothing more than to kill them. The Drifter possesses the Guide to 
Monsters 4e (50 + 5%) Skill, allowing them to correctly identify 
monsters, threats, and other forces of nature in the world. In a 
rather - academic fashion.
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 15 Credits

Signature Focus: Adventure, Freedom

Transfer Requirements: Take the Oath to the Union

Standard Transfer : Any

?
Urban (History)
Rats, City Slicker, Urbz
	While the cities of the Errant Earth canÅft hope to match the supposed majesty of the Pre-
Collapse Era, the sprawling cityscapes of the new world are home to millions of souls banding 
together in their own makeshift way. Endless winding streets and dilapidated living conditions fit 
comfortably together with highrises and glittering facilities that seem to dominate the skyline. The 
lights and glamour of the city never truly faded, even if the smog and the people have changed.
	Drifters from the city are often looking for a way out, they know every street and every crevice. 
Can slip away unnoticed in a busy alleyway just as much as find themselves in the bustling city center. 
Many slum it with the poor, the real citizens of the city, the backbones, but knowing how to shake 
hands with the elite (or at least get within shanking distance) is always a talent needed to survive.


ATTRIBUTE
City Rat
Tunnel 
Snake
Anima
D6
D6
Bravado
D8
D4
Comprehension
D4
D4
Finesse
D6
D8
Hardiness
D4
D6
Power
D6
D8
Speed
D6
D6
WIllpower
D8
D6



Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 3 CL
+1d6 / 3 CL
Karma
4
3
Potential
-
-
ESP / MP
-
-
Transfer
2
2
Learning Rate
4
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Banter
People
Trained
Labor
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
Memetics
Cultural
Hobby
Sleight of Hand
Espionage & Roguery
Hobby
Stealth
Espionage & Roguery
Trained
Streetwise
Espionage & Roguery
Core
Trade: Any
Cultural
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Etiquette
People
Trained
Any
Cultural & Domestic
Trained



Breath of the City - The Drifter has earned the Lore (City of 
Choice ) Skill as a Core Skill. This is their home city and the 
nuances it has.

Eye Them Up  - The Drifter can ÅgEye UpÅh a person, getting a 
basic read on how they are holding themselves and their rough 
threat to them immediately. At Rank 4, and every four Ranks 
After,  they may add a new aspect they can ÅgEye Up.Åh
Åú	Businesses
Åú	Infrastructure
Åú	Locations
Åú	Streets & Roads
Åú	Transport
Åú	Vehicles


Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: City of Choice, Streets, Gang

Transfer Requirements: Live in a City for 5 years.

Standard Transfer : Adventurer or Expert

?
Zanzibart (Racial)
Esoterics, Mysteres, Wyrdica
Å@Å@Å@Magicians are inherently a bit odd, their skills and abilities distance themselves from humanity in 
their own ways. Zanzibart are the natural endpoint of that distance. Being born inside or in the vicinity 
of an Earthblood Wound led the Zanzibart to awaken their Magical Abilities earlier than most, some 
developing the flow of magic in utero. Being filled with magical energy at such a young age, many 
would consider it a blessing for Ågultimate magic powerÅh though the addiction to Earthblood has altered 
their DNA and state of being fundamentally. Zanzibart are ÅgoffÅh in a few ways, their bodies are weak, 
their veins a chromatic array, and their insides a mess of magically induced tumors.
Å@Å@Å@Zanzibart Drifters often venture out due to their nature, magical communities are more likely to 
study them than to teach them. Even the term is little more than a mystery, part derogatory for being 
a mystery without an answer, the other being a mystery worth solving.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
-
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D12
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D4
Power
-
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D12


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
4
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
+2d6
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Any
Magic
Core
Blood Vein
ATB
ATB
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Magic
Trained
Meditation
ATB
ATB



Memories of Loss - The DrifterÅfs mind is filled with arcane 
symbols and a dreamless sleep of their own labyrinthine 
spellbook. Every three Ranks, the Drifter is able to Inscribe any 
Spell, Gesture, or Glyph to themselves. They increase their Base 
number of Inscriptions to be equal to their CL.

Burning Red  - The Drifter increases their total Heat by +2 every 
Three Ranks, Zanzibart are inherently able to control magic 
much more smoothly than others. If sporadically.

Palace of Infinite Ruby Red Glass - The Drifter struggles to 
sleep, only receiving half of their normal recovery in any rest 
circumstance. However, their Comprehension and Willpower are 
considered to be Supernatural.
Starting Equipment Package: Magician
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Magic, Zanzibart, Mutation

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Magic

?
Occupations

Acolyte (Education)
Priests, Wise Men, Pursuers, Secret Keepers, Storytellers
	The Drifter has sworn themselves to a cause or deed, taking up the mantle as a devoted 
follower of the doctrine they've set out for themselves. Whether this is pursuing martial brilliance, the 
true faith, or their own pursuit of power is irrelevant.
	Acolytes are wise in their ways and tend to view the world through the lens of their education 
or obsession. Almost all of them walk the path of finding Magic or Psychic powers to assist them, even 
if some of them never have the chance to develop it. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D10
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D4
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+1d4 / 3 CL
Karma
2
Potential
+50
ESP / MP
+1d6 / CL
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Any Science
Science
Trained
Banter
People
Trained
Domestic Work
Cultural
Trained
Lore (Any)
Cultural
Core
Lore (Region)
Cultural
Trained
Performance  
(Vocal or Instrument)
People
Trained
Literacy (American)
Cultural
Perfect
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Medical
Trained
Any (If Awakened)
Psychic
Trained
Any (If Awakened)
Magic
Trained
Any
Knowledge
Trained










Detection - The Acolyte has the Detect Potential (50+5%) 
Skill, allowing them to perform an Awakening Ritual on either 
Psychics or Magicians. If they succeed, they are able to 
awaken the dormant potential inside of the person, but a 
failure indicates an inability to Awaken, but detect its 
presence. 

Meditative Understanding - The AcolyteÅfs have trained 
themselves to meditate during their sleep to consult either the 
Inland Emperor or their Dreaming Self. They recover an 
additional +1d6 / 5 CL ESP or MP during their rest. If the 
Acolyte has not awoken their Psychic or Magic Potential they 
add an additional +2d6 to their Endurance instead
Starting Equipment Package: Scholar or Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Religious Icons, Ritualistic Chants, and Holy 
Vestments  

Transfer Requirements: Dedication to a Cause or Doctrine. A 
Lore Skill of at least 50%.

Standard Transfer : Magic (If Awakened), Psychic (If 
Awakened), Educated, or Expert. 
?
Adventurer (Adventurer)
Wanderers, Vagabonds, Drifters, Wayfinder
	Where there is the unknown, there are the adventuring souls who would find themselves 
wandering the Errant Earth in pursuit of finding it. The term ÅgAdventurerÅh is little more than a loosely 
organized group of wanderers with goals as vague as their namesake. They strike out from their 
homes and lives in pursuit of their own ambitions and goals. Often these end up as ÅgGet Rich or Die 
TryingÅh or ÅgBecome Famous,Åh alongside other lofty dreams of heroes.
	Drifters and Adventurers tend to become synonymous, the stereotypical Drifter is the 
wandering adventurer, roving from town to town picking up work when they can. Of course these 
adventurous types often find themselves in some sort of conspiracy, disaster, or situation that theyÅfll 
need to either solve or make a profit off of.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d8 / CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
4
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Land Navigation
Wilderness
Trained
Navigation
Technical
Trained
Radio
Electronics & 
Mechanics
Trained
Scouter
Military
Trained
Stealth
Espionage & Rogeury
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Espionage & Roguery
Trained
Any
People
Trained
Any
Electronics & 
Mechanics
Trained
Any
Technical
Trained


Danger Sense - Adventurers are tested and 
knowledgeable about how not to die violently on 
the Errant Earth. The Drifter adds +1 to their 
Personal Initiative every four Ranks.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 25 Credits

Signature Focus: Adventure, Heroism, Personal 
Effects

Transfer Requirements: None, anyone can be 
an Adventurer

Standard Transfer : Any



?
Artisan (Expert)
Craftsman, Artist, Journeyman, Artificer
	Creation is human in nature, the drive to apply brush to canvas, hammer to anvil, or knife to 
wood. While there are an infinite number of those who do so out of necessity or out of a drive to feed 
themselves, few pursue the work of ÅgartisanalÅh quality. Artisans are those who spend years perfecting 
their craft to a point where they can be almost considered masters of their art. Artisans are often 
content to live their life plying their trade and making a hefty living from their masterworks.
	So what drives one to become a Drifter? The truth is that many Artisan Drifters are on the hunt 
for the ÅgnextÅh great work, longing to find the secret to their masterwork, their final grand piece of art 
which only they can truly see. While they may not be gifted in battle, magic, or abilities, their ability to 
determine quality and actually fix things in the field are invaluable to many. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
-
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
4
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Trade: Any
Cultural
Core
Lore: Trade Secrets
Cultural
Core
Trinkets
Cultural
Hobby
Barter
People
Trained
Appraisal
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Cultural
Trained
Banter
People
Trained
Etiquette
People
Trained

Starting Equipment Package: Civilian
 
Starting Wealth: 3d6 x 50 Credits

Signature Focus: Craft, Trade, 
Artistery
Transfer Requirements: Trade Skill 
and Lore: Trade Secrets at 80%.

Standard Transfer : Expert


Artisan Clique - The Artisan is dedicated to a particular circle based on their art. 
Each Artisan has a Clique which grants them extra Skills based on their preferred 
working environment.

Clique
Bonus Skills
Trade Examples
Artistic
Banter (Trained), Etiquette (Trained), 
Forgary (Trained), Wardrobe (Hobby)
Painting, Sculpting, 
Writer, Calligraphy
Civil
Architecture (Core), Earth Mechanics: 
Civil Infrastructure (Core)
Civil Engineer, Public 
Engineer
Tech
Robotics (Trained), Computer Use 
(Trained), Collapse Mechnika (Hobby), 
Computer Use (Trained)
Coding, Robotics, 
Cybernetics
Vehicle
Earth Mechanics: Vehicle of Choice 
(Core), Piloting: Choice (Core)
Land Vehicles, Aero 
Vehicles, Sea Vehicles
Writer
Literacy: American (Core), Language: 
Any (Core)
Playwright, Novelist, 
Game Designer


Athlete (Adventurer)
B-Baller, Deadhead, Sportsball, Hyperfan
	Society is built on three sacred pillars: Money, Power, and Entertainment. The ones who 
embody all three of these are Athletes, famous inside their own circles and recognized nearly 
everywhere if they are famous enough. Whether they are taking up the ancient art of the B-Baller in 
the concrete courts, Deadball Players who are just as likely to get their head crushed than touch a ball, 
or simple gladiatorial arenas found scattered across the world. 
	Drifters who are, or were, Athletes take their skills and abilities theyÅfve gained in the field and 
now freshly apply them to ÅgrealÅh scenarios. Whether itÅfs smashing in heads or delivering the one-two 
piledriver with a flourish, the Athlete of yesterday is a modern warrior of today.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D4
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 1 CL
Karma
4
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Sport of Choice
Cultural
Core
Technical: Sport of 
Choice
Technical
Core
Sports Athlete
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Athleticism
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
Bodybuilding
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
Endurance Training
ATB Skill
ATB Skill


Exalted Athlete - At Rank 3 and every three Ranks 
after, the Drifter adds a Skill Tag to their [Lore: 
Sport of Choice] or [Technical: Sport of Choice].
 
Starting Equipment Package: Civilian
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 100 Credits

Signature Focus: Sport of Choice

Transfer Requirements: Join a Sports Team for 2 
Years

Standard Transfer : Adventurer or Man-At-Arms


?
Burnout (Magic)
Burner, Blood Magician, Scar Magician
	When a Magician pushes themselves to their absolute limits, theyÅfll start to burn away their 
Magical Abilities. Over time a Magician will find themselves able to use less of their abilities, forcing 
them to push harder to get that high they were once at, and soon all that remains is the unfortunate 
creature of the Burnout. Burnout Magicians are those who have exhausted most of, if not all, of their 
natural Magic Power at some point in their life - this may be for good or desperate reasons depending 
on the person. Rather than go quietly into the night, Burnouts push harder, squeezing the metaphorical 
blood from their stone body. At the rate theyÅfre going, theyÅfll never reach where they once were, but 
may be able to eke out some semblance of that power again.
	Burnout Drifters are simple - Magicians on a hunt to get their magic back. Most of the time 
theyÅfll find themselves coughing blood up on the side of a road or shooting up whatever they can get 
their hands on to get the same rush. But nothing will ever hit as hard as the first spell they cast.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
-
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
-
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D12


Endurance
+1d6/ 3 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Magic
Core
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Language (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Lore: [School of 
Thought]
Cultural
Trained
Field Medicine
Medical
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Tear Knowledge
Science
Trained
Blood Vein
ATB Skill
ATB Skill


Blood from a Stone - Burnout Magicians use their Endurance 
and Health as a medium to cast Spells, replacing the use of 
MP. Due to being a Burnout, the Drifter only receives +1d4 MP 
from any Background or Occupation per CL.

Tingling Sensation - The Burnout may recover their Magical 
Ability if they are able to reach 30 total Magic Power. They 
may immediately Transfer out at this point.

Gasoline Veins  - The BurnoutÅfs Heat is reduced to 0, 
converting all Strain into Burning Out or using Endurance / 
Health. Once they transfer out, they may remove this feature.

Personal Grimoire - The Burnout has their personal grimoire. If 
this is taken as a starting Occupation, the Drifter has 3 Spells, 3 
Gestures, and a Glyph. This Grimoire may contain three of 
each.
School of Thought - The Burnout has trained extensively in one 
of the many schools of Magic, they either acquire their School of 
ThoughtÅfs Magic Knowledge Skill as a Core Skill or apply a Skill 
Tag of their choice to the School of ThoughtÅfs Magic Knowledge 
Skill.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Magician
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Magic, Mysticism, Burnout

Transfer Requirements: Reach 0 Maximum MP via Burning Out

Standard Transfer : Magic
?
Burster (Psychic)
Boomer, Psychopsychic, Brainburster, Mind Melter
	Psychics are rightly feared by many, though few have earned their reputation as much as the 
Bursters. Where some Psychics develop their more subtle powers, the BursterÅfs subtle approach often 
involves blowing someoneÅfs head up or slicing someone in half with a psychically manifested blade. 
Among Psychics, Bursters are seen as being brutes or unrefined psychics, young and inexperienced 
Psychics that lash out with their powers rather than actually use them. Among themselves, Bursters 
are the only ones ÅgactuallyÅh using their powers, no manipulating, no trickery, just raw, unfiltered, power.
	Bursters who take up the mantle as a Drifter are usually outcasts in their own way. Walking 
away from a disaster they may have caused with a freakout, covered in blood from someone who 
got too close, or a plethora of other situations where the Burster ended up the last one standing. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D10
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
2
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d8
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Scouter
Military
Trained
Any
Psychic
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained
Bodily Control
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
Psycho Phenomenon
Science
Trained


Resonant Powers - The Burster develops a Resonant 
Power every four Ranks.

Charge Powers - The Burster develops a new 
Charge Power Order every two Ranks.

Latent Powers  - The Burster adds a new Latent 
Power every five Ranks.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Psychic
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Psychic Powers

Transfer Requirements: Awakened Psychic

Standard Transfer : Psychic


Changeling (Magic)
Werewolf, Therian, Skindancer
	Magicians who master the art of physical change are a rarity among the magical community, 
the physical body as it twists and contorts is a dangerous game that few wish to perform for fear of 
being ÅgstuckÅh in that form, or worse. Changelings are Magicians who have practiced and honed their 
ability to change their physical body, allowing them to transform their body into a chimeric form. 
Changelings who are able to perfect this ability are able to transform their bodies readily and actively 
to the situation, those who walk the path are often discovered as a gibbering mess ripping itself apart 
at the seams before expiring.
	Changeling Drifters practice and perfect their abilities, twisting and churning their form to suit 
their needs. If they are capable enough, they may even be able to reach that perfected form.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
0
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
+1d10
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Magic
Core
Astra Knowledge
Science
Trained
Language (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Lore: [School of 
Thought]
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Tear Knowledge
Science
Trained


Changeling Form - The Changeling may spend 10 MP to shift into 
their Changeling Form, they begin with 15 Species Points to develop 
their Changeling Form. It lasts for [WIL] Rounds during high stress 
situations (Combat, Intense Situations, Etc), or [WIL x  Rank] Minutes 
in low intensity situations. 
They are considered to be ÅgSustainingÅh this for purposes of Heat.

Chimera Soul - The ChangelingÅfs body is metamorphic, starting at 
Rank 3 and every three Ranks after, the Changeling chooses one of 
the following:
Åú	A New 15 Species Point Changeling Form - 10 MP
Åú	A 25 Species Point Warform - 20 MP
Åú	Trinket Mimicry, turning into a small object of Handheld 
Size - 5 MP
Åú	Permanency Form, a 5 Species Point Form that can be 
sustained for [WIL x Rank] Hours - 8 MP

Personal Grimoire - The Changeling has their personal grimoire. If 
this is taken as a starting Occupation, the Drifter has one Spell, 
Gesture, and a Glyph. This Grimoire may contain three of each.
School of Thought - The Changeling has trained extensively 
in one of the many schools of Magic, they either acquire their 
School of ThoughtÅfs Magic Knowledge Skill as a Core Skill or 
apply a Skill Tag of their choice to the School of ThoughtÅfs 
Magic Knowledge Skill.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Magician or Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Magic, Mysticism, Changeling

Transfer Requirements: Practice and Perfect the Changeling 
Arts from a Teacher - Dangerous and Probably Suicidal

Standard Transfer : Magic

Doctor (Expert)
Doc, Physician, Chop Shoppers
	As long as there are two people in the world, one will always try to kill the other, and someone 
will need to patch up that dying man. Doctors can be found in most every culture, from mystic 
shamans performing ritualized dances and applying poultices to the body to back alley chop shops 
with a man smoking a cigarette chopping someone open for a quick paycheck. Doctors heal people, 
keep them alive, patch them up, and do their best to make sure that there are still people fighting the 
good fight. At least if they pay the right amount.
	Doctors who take up the life of a Drifter often do so for the money, wandering healers going 
from place to place plying a simple trade that everyone seems to need, but ever has enough of. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Medicine
Cultural
Core
Traditional Medicine
Medical
Core
Any
Medical
Trained
Natural Science: Any
Science
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Empathy
People
Trained
Any
Medical
Trained
Armchair Scholar
ATB
ATB
Natural Science: Any
Science
Trained


Diagnosis - The Doctor has the Diagnosis (35 + 3%) Skill that allows 
them to determine the cause of pain, severity of illness, and potential 
treatment options by observing a patient. 

Medicos Sans Frontieres - The Doctor may establish a triage 
location, being able to treat up to [Rank+1] Patients simultaneously. 
They count as being in a Medical Environment.

Medical Practice - The Doctor has a particular focus on their talents 
and abilities. Every three Ranks they may apply a Skill Tag to any of 
their Medical Skills. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Professional
 
Starting Wealth: 2d6 x 50 Credits

Signature Focus: Healing, Medical, Doctoring

Transfer Requirements: Reach 90% in both a Natural Science and 
one Medical Skill of Choice.

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert


Entertainer (Expert)
Bard, Showgirls, Dancers, Singers, Clown
	Every single day people are miserable, their air is dirty, the danger is ever present, many starve 
in the streets and more are willing to become monsters for the promise of a better future. But 
everyone, from the most wicked black souled creature to the most noble heroes love a good show. 
Entertainers serve a simple part in society, they dance, they sing, they make sure people forget their 
problems for a moment and enjoy the fleeting seconds. The art of entertainment isnÅft simple side jobs 
or party tricks, itÅfs an art form to impress upon the crowd that life is easy and to relax to the siren song 
of their lilac voice - of course the Credits donÅft hurt much either.
	Entertainer Drifters are those seeking their next act, playing their bits and shows on the road 
with some armed escort or using the veneer of a renegade musician to further their own goals. 
Perhaps they just want to show the world that something beautiful is still possible, even for a moment. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D8
Bravado
D10
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Charm
People
Hobby
Lore: Any
Cultural
Trained
Memetics
Cultural
Trained
Performance: Any
People
Core
Wardrobe
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Banter
People
Trained
Dieting
ATB
ATB
Etiquette
People
Trained
LoganÅfs Loophole
ATB
ATB
Performance: Any
People
Trained
Streetwise
Espionage & Rogue
Trained


Perfecting the Craft - The Entertainer is always refining, fixing, 
and tinkering with their show. They may add a Skill Tag to any 
Performance Skill they have once every four Ranks. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Professional
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Performance, Art, Music,

Transfer Requirements: Reach 90% in a Performance Skill

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert


?
Esper (Psychic)
Psychic, Psycho
	When describing a Psychic, many people will rattle off their initial superstitions and beliefs. 
Taking enough of these truths, half-truths, and lies, one will end up with an Esper of some variety. 
Considered to be the ÅgDefaultÅh Psychic, Espers have walked the path of Psychic Development to be 
more even handed and balanced. Their Inland Empire is ordered and precise, ÅgaverageÅh to more 
extreme Psychics, but there is a detail that many others leave to favor the more fantastical. Espers 
may be average, but they are far from simple.
	Esper Drifters are often like any other wandering Psychic, choosing to go with the winds of fate. 
Hard to put any precise nature about them down, just the way they like it. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D12
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
2
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d10
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Psycho Phenomenon
Science
Core
Identify Psychic 
Powers
Psychic
Trained
Shivers
Psychic 
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained
Bodily Control
ATB Skill
ATB Skill


Resonant Powers - The Burster develops a 
Resonant Power every three Ranks.

Charge Powers - The Burster develops a new 
Charge Power Order every three Ranks.

Latent Powers  - The Burster adds a new Latent 
Power every four Ranks.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Psychic
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Psychic Powers

Transfer Requirements: Awakened Psychic

Standard Transfer : Psychic


?
Explorer (Adventurer)
Wayfinder, Pathfinder, Scout
	When the end had consumed the world, it took many years before the first daring souls 
ventured beyond their isolated communities. Explorers have been a part of the Errant Earth since 
those days, venturing off in search of glory and profit, or at least to complete a job due to their 
knowledge of the area. Formal Explorers are sent out on commission to delve into ruins or scout out 
potential areas, those driven to the Explorer's life more actively can be part of the various woodsman 
living day to day, nomadic forces across the world, or perhaps just a bit of wanderlust haunting their 
dreams.
	Drifters and Explorers are often one and the same, brave enough to face the world in front of 
them yet prudent enough to know how to survive in whatever hell theyÅfve entered or at least return 
with something of value. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
4
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
2
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Architecture
Technical
Trained
Salvage Operations
Technical
Trained
Land Navigation
Wilderness
Core
Tracking
Wilderness
Hobby
Homesteading
Wilderness
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Collapse Mechnika
Electronics & 
Mechanics
Trained
Pre-Collapse History
Science
Trained


Familiar Territory - The Explorer has a familiarity 
with local territory, they gain the skill Lore: Local 
Area (Perfect).

Sure Step - The Explorer may increase their Pace 
by +1 once per Combat, they gain an extra use of 
their ability every 4 Ranks.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: Wilderness, Exploration

Transfer Requirements: None, anyone can 
become an Explorer. 

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation


Hunter (Man-At-Arms)
Bounty Hunter, Manhunter, Tracker, Hitman
	People run from their past, often faster with each step they take. But no matter what, their past 
is always catching up to them - often in the shape of a Hunter. Hunters venture out to find their targets 
and bring them back. Bounty Hunters track men, Monster Hunters track monsters, and Witch Hunters 
find the wicked and evil - every society has found the use of Hunters in them, though their profession is 
often distasteful to many. An essential part of society, yet ostracized from it for the exact reason their 
society calls upon them. A paradoxical career choice.
	Hunter Drifters are just living their natural endpoint, wandering justicars or murderers finding 
their endless quarries in a long string of jobs. Does society need them, or do they need society? 
Perhaps neither, perhaps both. A paradoxical outcome.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d10 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / CL
Karma
2
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Intelligence Gathering
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Monster Hunter
Military
Core
Scouter
Military
Core
Tracking
Wilderness
Trained
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Trade: Any
Technical
Trained
Lore: Any
Cultural
Trained
Memetics
Cultural
Trained

Starting Equipment Package: Exile
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: The Hunter, HunterÅfs 
Quarry, Ideals
Transfer Requirements:  Nothing but a 
Target

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation


Accusatory Aim - The Hunter has their eye on their victim, 
they select a Target during combat. They deal [Rank / 4] +1  
Extra damage to that Target. 

HunterÅfs Mark - The Hunter has the HunterÅfs Mark Skill at (35 
+ 5%), they may select a quarry of their choice or apply a Skill 
Tag to a HunterÅfs Mark Skill they have. Hunters Mark is a 
reference of patterns, habits, and monikers to hunt down 
their mark more easily.
Åú	Criminals
Åú	Demons
Åú	Magicians
Åú	Psychics
Åú	Coalition or Union (or Faction of Choice)
Åú	Monsters
Åú	etc





?
Infiltrator (Man-At-Arms)
Spy, Assassin, Hired Gun, Commando, Black Ops, Spooks
	Combat is about three things - knowing more than the enemy, overpowering the enemy, and 
only fighting when you absolutely know you can win. Infiltrators have a number of names, but they 
specialize in the acquisition and information of the core tenants of combat. Preferring to work alone or 
in small teams, Infiltrators rely less on raw combat ability and more on their ability to avoid fighting all 
together. Infiltrators can also be less organized, haphazard breaking & entering specialists with 
enough combat experience to make it out if it does go wrong.
	Infiltrators becoming Drifters is often a necessary evil for them, sometimes they learn too much 
and itÅfs the 9mm retirement plan, other times their work becomes too hard on the soul and they take 
to the road to ease their troubled heart. Of course others pick up the tricks, a valuable commodity in a 
world where there are haves and have nots. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D10
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D10
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1d6 / 2 CL
Karma
2
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Stealth
Espionage & Rogue
Core
Investigation
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Any
Military
Trained


Ambush Artist - The Infiltrator has trained rigorously for the perfect 
ambushing technique. During an Ambush, the Infiltrator gains a +3 to 
Combat Checks during their Turn.

Tactical Espionage Action - The Infiltrator is skilled in the art of 
deception and espionage, they may apply a Skill Tag every 3 Ranks to 
any Roguery & Espionage Skill. 





Starting Equipment Package: Exile, Soldier, or 
Destitute
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 30 Credits

Signature Focus: Stealth, Infiltration, Military

Transfer Requirements: Stealth at 75% or Greater, 
Military Combat Training

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms

?
Magus (Magic)
Magician, Sorcerer, Warlock, Elementalist, 
	A Magus is trained in the arts of magic efficiently, employing their own set of doctrinal 
obsessions and quirks to how they employ their spells. To many the Magus is the "default" Magician, 
though their elitist perspective over the "Deviants" of their society proves they may be right.
	Magus who become Drifters are either seeking to enhance their power or refine their skills for 
their position in society. However, their egos may get the better of them if left unchecked. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 3 CL
Karma
1
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
+1d10 / Rank
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Magic
Core
Any
Magic
Trained
Any
Any
Trained
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Language (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Lore: [School of 
Thought]
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Tear Knowledge
Science
Trained



Personal Grimoire - The Magus has their 
personal grimoire. If this is taken as a starting 
Occupation, the Drifter has 2 Spells, 2 Gestures, 
and a Glyph. This Grimoire may contain five of 
each.

School of Thought - The Magus has trained 
extensively in one of the many schools of Magic, 
they either acquire their School of ThoughtÅfs 
Magic Knowledge Skill as a Core Skill or apply a 
Skill Tag of their choice to the School of ThoughtÅfs 
Magic Knowledge Skill.

Metamagic - The Magus has trained themselves 
to understand how to maximize their GrimoireÅfs 
effectiveness. At Rank 4, 8, and 12 the Magus may 
add an additional Gesture or Glyph to a spell. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Scholar or 
Magician
 
Starting Wealth:1d6 x 50 Credits

Signature Focus: Magic, Cantrips, Scholarship

Transfer Requirements: Awakened Magic, Astra 
Knowledge of at least 25%

Standard Transfer : Educated or Magic

 
Martial Artist (Man-At-Arms)
Templar, Street Fighter, Pugilist, Gladiator
	People fight for a multitude of reasons, some for money, others out of patriotism. Not Martial 
Artists, they live for the battle and spend their lives mastering the art of turning themselves into an 
advanced lethal weapon. Martial Artists find beauty and compulsion in the art of combat, practicing 
day in and day out to perfect their killing arts. Martial Artists may do so out of sport or hobby, casually 
mastering the methods of war - others treat their training as a rite of passage, a way for them to 
evolve and harness their inherent bloodlust.
	Martial Artists taking up the role of a Drifter is often a pilgrimage unto itself, whether itÅfs to 
spread their ÅgStyleÅh to the furthest reaches, protecting the honor of their training, or seeking to indulge 
in bloody fists. Martial Artists are professional killers at their core. And Drifters always need someone 
to kill for them, or do a bit of killing themselves. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D10
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d12 / CL
Health
+1d6 / CL
Karma
1
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
5


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Martial Art 
Specialization
Weapon 
Specialization
Weapon 
Specialization
Unarmed
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Athleticism
ATB
ATB
Bodybuilding
ATB
ATB
Masochist
ATB
ATB


Essential Combat Style - The Martial Artist is always honing their killing 
art - they may select two Martial Art Weapon Specializations if the 
Drifter selects this as their first Occupation. At Rank 2, 5, 8, and 11 the 
Drifter selects a new Martial Art Weapon Specialization to add to their 
Combat Style.

Lethal Weapon - The Drifter is a manmade lethal weapon, they gain 
the following benefits:

Techniques
The Drifter is allowed to use a new Martial Arts Move 
every 3 Ranks.
Lethality
The DrifterÅfs Punch and Kick Unarmed Attack increase 
their Damage Die by one step. Every 3 Ranks, they 
increase the Damage by +1.

Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d2 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: Martial Arts, Combat Arts, Physical 
Ability

Transfer Requirements: Three Martial Arts Weapon 
Techniques

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms

?
Mentalist (Psychic)
Inland Courtier, Knobheads, Delusional
	What people fear about Psychics isnÅft the explosive bursts of power or the stereotypical variety 
of Psychic, they fear the mindworm. They fear when theyÅfre part of the Chorus, nothing more, nothing 
less. Mentalists are Psychics who have honed their Inland Empire into a lucid dreamscape, molding 
and reshaping it to seep into the minds and thoughts of those around them. Their expertise comes 
from their affinity for Resonant Powers, slowly soaking in the mental energy of others.
	Drifter Mentalists rarely advertise their talents, preferring to use them to highlight other aspects 
about themselves or to further dive into the sickening truths of the human condition. Young Mentalists 
may be coming into their powers, an sordid state of affairs when the voices in their head wonÅft shut 
up.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D12
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D12
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d6 / 3 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
2
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d12
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Psycho Phenomenon
Science
Core
Identify Psychic 
Powers
Psychic
Trained
Shivers
Psychic 
Core
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained
Purity of Mind
ATB Skill
ATB Skill


Resonant Powers - The Mentalist develops a 
Resonant Power every Two Ranks.

Charge Powers - The Mentalist develops a new 
Charge Power Order every Four Ranks.

Latent Powers  - The Mentalist adds a new Latent 
Power every Three Ranks.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Psychic
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Psychic Powers

Transfer Requirements: Awakened Psychic

Standard Transfer : Psychic

?
Mercenary (Man-At-Arms)
Freegunner, Killer-for-Hire, Soldier of Fortune, Free Fighter
	The Drifter is like many in the wasteland - a gun for hire. Taking up the job of a mercenary is 
familiar to any traveller, but to the Drifter, they've internalized the professional attitude and pursuits 
being a Merc means.
	Mercenaries come from many different backgrounds, some may be part of large companies, 
some dragged into the free soldierÅfs life out of obligation, others adopt the name to justify their 
murderous impulses. Whatever the reason, a soldier of fortune goes where the money is, regardless of 
the source. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d10 / CL
Health
+1d6 / CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
3
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
5


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Tactics
Military
Trained 
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Medical
Trained
Any
Psychic
Trained
Any
Magic
Trained
Any
Knowledge
Trained



Mercenary Routine - Mercenaries are trained daily for their 
operations. If this Occupation is taken at Character Creation - 
add +1d4 Finesse, Hardiness, Power, Speed, or Willpower. 

Gifted Combatant - The Mercenary is a trained soldier and 
always developing their abilities and talents. Every 5 Ranks, 
the Mercenary may improve their Combat Training by one 
Step OR take a Weapon Speciality. 

Flair for Combat - Upon entering the Mercenary Occupation, 
the Character will gain a Combat Specialty of their choice. 
Starting Equipment Package: Outlaw or Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 2d6 x 25 Credits

Signature Focus: Weapons, Armor, Individuality, Landschknect

Transfer Requirements: None, anyone can be a Merc.

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms or Adventurer

?
Merchant (Expert)
Trader, Businessman, Travelling Salesman, Charlatan
	Wealth is the foundation of all that is good, evil, and most everything in between. Merchants 
can be found across the world, individuals who try to hawk their wares, sell what they can, and 
continue enjoying the Credits that flow. Though many who try their hand at business succeed, many 
more find themselves in poverty or getting shot by their creditors.
	Drifter Merchants are the brave few who wander the roadways in search of profit - of course 
theyÅfll always need to keep themselves safe from the monsters that be. Merchants handle the money, 
negotiate deals, and try to keep themselves alive.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D10
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
2
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Local Market
Cultural
Core
Appraisal
Cultural
Core
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (American)
Cultural
Perfect
Barter
People
Core
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
People
Trained
Any
Cultural
Trained
Technical: Financials
Technical
Trained
Gambling
Espionage & Rogue
Trained



Cutting Deals - The Drifter may increase the sales cost of 
goods they are selling by 5%. At Rank 3, 6, and 9, this increases 
to 10%, 15%, and 20% respectively. 

Backpacker - Merchants have to keep their supply on them 
and most everything else. The Drifter increases the number of 
Belt Items they have every 3 Ranks and the number of Pack 
Items they have with every 5 Ranks. 

Starting Equipment Package: Merchant
 
Starting Wealth: 2d10 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Wealthy, Merchandising, Corporate

Transfer Requirements: Barter at 90% or Greater

Standard Transfer : Adventurer, Educated, or Expert

?
Novice (Legacy)
Student, Neophyte, Apprentice
	Everyone starts somewhere, and the Novice is at the start of their adventure and learning the 
ropes of the life ahead of them. Often Novices are younger and inexperienced, relying on a little luck 
and their own innate characteristics to push them to greater heights. Whether they are students of a 
new path in life or simply a kid realizing their destiny, being a Novice is rarely an easy start, but through 
the crucible of conflict can a Novice earn their stripes.
	Novice Drifters are trying to find their footing in an unfamiliar world and situation, relying on 
those around them to help them out and keep them alive. Novices learn quickly though, picking up 
what they see and what they know as fast as they can. They may just need every advantage they 
can get. 


ATTRIBUTE
Youngster
Student
Anima
D6
D6
Bravado
D4
D6
Comprehension
-
D6
Finesse
D6
D6
Hardiness
D4
D6
Power
D4
D6
Speed
D6
D6
WIllpower
D6
D6



Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
+1 / 2 CL
Potential
-
-
ESP / MP
-
-
Karma
6
4
Transfer
Note
Note
Learning Rate
1
1


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained



Learning The World - The Novice is learning the secrets of the universe and 
everything else around them. When the Novice reaches Rank 5, they gain +2% 
Development to three Skills of their Choice.

Not A Student Forever - A Novice may only become Rank 5, after which they 
must transfer to a new Occupation. When this occurs, they are considered to be 
Rank 3 in their new Occupation. Learning the ropes is pretty helpful.

Improvising My Future - At Rank 5, the Novice may choose any Skill of their 
choice to make it a Core Skill. They may also select a Weapon Proficiency, 
Weapon Specialization, or Basic Combat Training. 

Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: Newbie, Student, Youth

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer 
Into

Standard Transfer : Adventurer

?
Pilot (Expert)
Driver, Road Warrior, Rover
	On the Errant Earth, the man behind the wheel is more free than anyone else. Often coming 
from scrappier backgrounds, Pilots are professionals behind the wheel, preferring the comfort of their 
customized ride than being around others. Whether they are couriers between communities, soldiers-
of-fortune-on-wheels, or a simple nomad beyond the skies is up to them. Though separating a Pilot 
from their vehicle is a sure fire way to get a right hook in the face.
	Pilot Drifters are somewhat inevitable, mobility is the DrifterÅfs creed and being able to haul their 
supplies around makes Pilots an invaluable part of any team. Whether they enjoy the open road or 
working a job, a man and his wheels will rarely part softly.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
Note
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Pilot: Any (+10%)
Technical
Core
Daredevil
Technical
Trained
Earth Mechanics: 
Vehicle of Choice
Electrical & 
Mechanical
Trained
Lore: Vehicle of 
Choice
Cultural
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Electrical & 
Mechanical
Trained
Earth Mechanics: 
Vehicle of Choice
Electrical & 
Mechanical
Core
Pilot: Any
Technical
Trained



Grease Lightning - The Pilot begins with a Vehicle of their 
design at cost - the more they spend on their initial Vehicle 
(including Hardpoints and Weapons) it will reduce their total 
Karma and Transfer potential.

Total Credit Cost
Transfer
Karma
50,000 or Less
3
4
50,000 to 75,000
4
3
75,000 to 100,000
5
2
100,000 to 125,000
6
1
125,000 to 150,000
7
0
150,000 to 200,00
8
-1
200,000 or More
10
-3

Speed Racer - Pilots push their vehicle to their limit and their 
abilities alongside it - every 3 Ranks they apply a Skill Tag to a 
Pilot, Earth Mechanics, or Daredevil Skill.

Starting Equipment Package: Handyman or Professional
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Vehicles, Cars, Piloting

Transfer Requirements: Pilot Skill of at least 90%

Standard Transfer : Adventurer, Educated, or Expert


?
Scholar (Educated)
Erudite, Lorekeeper, Teacher, Dangerous Minds
	Knowledge can be just as dangerous as any other kind of weapon and the acquisition of 
knowledge is rarely simple. Scholars are those who dedicate their life to finding, preserving, and 
distributing knowledge to those in need of assistance or their expertise. Often coming from scholastic 
backgrounds, Scholars can be as formal or informal as they wish. Regardless of their focus and 
affiliation, Scholars push the limits of discovering the past and forging a new future. Though the forces 
that be tend to look down on those trying to help the downtrodden.
	Drifter Scholars are well educated in comparison to the usual lot, focusing more on the minute 
details of life and trying to use their knowledge to help those around them. Where others are practical, 
Scholars have the answers to lifeÅfs stranger, more mysterious, and often unknown questions. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2  CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
5
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Cultural
Core
Any
Science
Trained
Armchair Scholar
ATB
ATB
Literacy (American)
Cultural
Perfect
Lore: Any
Cultural
Core
Memetics
Cultural
Core
Pre-Collapse History
Science
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained



A Little Bit of Everything - Scholars learn things and things 
cover a wide variety of information and half-truths acquired 
over their research and observations. Scholars gain the Trivia 
Skill (50 + 3%) to know small factoids about various situations. 
Nothing too deep, or even true, just things.

Teacher & Pupil - Scholars hunger for knowledge and 
educating others, it takes the Scholar 1d6 + 2 Weeks to teach 
someone a new Hobby Skill of any Skill they are Trained or 
have a Core Skill in. They may learn a new Skill every two 
Ranks using the same timetable with others who are Trained 
or Core in a Skill.

Starting Equipment Package: Delver, Scholarship, or 
Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: Scholarship, Education, Learning

Transfer Requirements: 25 Total Skills

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert

?
Scientist (Educated)
Researcher, Deviant, Educator, Philosopher
	The future will be written by the victors, but if the current situation continues perhaps it will be 
written with sticks and stones. Scientists are those who bear the torch of the future, educating 
themselves through rigorous schooling or their own intensive training to learn about the secrets of the 
universe. Often they take on practical sciences, essentials for the here and now, but others have 
begun delving into the complexities of thought and nuanced understanding of others.
	Scientist Drifters are those looking to complete their thesis, or at least get the necessary 
information to start it. What they lack in physical strength or firearm skill, they make up for in 
knowledge about the fundamentals of the world - math, physics, biology, and even more esoteric arts 
on the nature of man, exo, and horrifying monster before them.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D12
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2  CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
4
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Science
Core
Any
Science
Core
Any
Science
Trained
Trade: Researcher
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (American)
Cultural
Perfect
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Science
Trained
Cram School
ATB
ATB
Armchair Scholar
ATB
ATB



Field of Research - Scientists have a field of research, the 
focus of the Scientists efforts and abilities that they seek to 
learn and understand. Select 6 Skills, each of these Skills are 
now considered Learned Skills with the Trained Rank.
The Scientist may develop these Skills as if they were any 
other kind of Skill. At Rank 4, 8, 12, 16,and 20, the Scientist may 
add an additional Skill or promote one of their Field of 
Research Skills to Core.


Dedicated Researcher - Honing their skills is the ultimate 
expression of the scientific method. Every Three Ranks, the 
Drifter may assign a Skill Tag to any Science Skill they possess. 
When a Science Skill reaches 100%, they gain a +1% to their 
Development on it. 
 

Starting Equipment Package: Scholarship
 
Starting Wealth: 1d20 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Scholarship, Education, Learning

Transfer Requirements: Two Science Skills at 90%+

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert

?
Scoundrel (Adventurer)
Smuggler, Mafioso, Gangster, Syndicatalist, Vigilante
	ThereÅfs something appealing about living on the edge of good and evil, a darkness where light 
seems to only glimpse in occasionally. Scoundrels are those who arenÅft ÅgevilÅh per say, but rely on vices, 
violence, and crime to get what they want. They may be bandits who take from the rich (others) and 
give to the poor (themselves), to professional smugglers who work the waterways, all the way to 
white collar scumbags who skim just enough off the top to get by.
	The Scoundrel seems like a natural for the life of a Drifter, keeping to the darkness keeps 
Scoundrels alive after all. But many have their hustle, their turf, or their obligations to keep themselves 
grounded. Those who take to the Drifting path are independent operators between work, or worse, 
someone who ran from the life .  

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1d6 / 2  CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
4
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Trade: [Criminal 
Enterprise ]
Cultural
Core
Lore: [Criminal 
Enterprise]
Cultural
Trained
Stealth
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Streetwise
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Banter
People
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Wardrobe
Cultural
Trained
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Charm
People
Trained
School of Hard Knocks
ATB
ATB



ÅgSo YouÅfve Heard About Me . . .Åh - Scoundrels and Rogues are close knit when 
they need to be. The Scoundrel gains the Skill. Infamous at 20 + 3%. It may be 
used to manipulate others based on reputation or perceived reputation.

Bastard Arts - The Scoundrel expands their various operations as they develop. 
Every 3 Ranks, they may apply a Skill Tag to one of their [Criminal Enterprise] 
Skills or gain a new Trade or Lore of a new Criminal Enterprise that is 
considered Trained.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Bandit or Professional
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 5 Credits or Baubles

Signature Focus: Crime, Enterprise, Criminal Enterprise

Transfer Requirements: Lore and Trade of a Criminal Enterprise at 75%

Standard Transfer :Adventurer or Expert

Senator (Expert)
Politician, Advocate, Spokesman, Charlatan
	As long as there are people, there will be those guiding the masses. Whether they are on the 
podium or influencing the crowds behind the curtains - Senators can be found in nearly every crevice 
of society in at least one way. Senators are those skilled at their art of the deal, speaking with their 
people and able to influence those willing to assist them. Senators build alliances, dismantle rivals, and 
oftentimes move and shake behind a desk with fewer curt words than any soldier could.
	What drives a Senator into the DrifterÅfs life? Respect and leadership are earned in the crucible 
of conflict and many wonÅft follow someone without good reason. Senator Drifters are charismatic 
souls who work their magic with silver tongues and grand ambitions. Anyone can be convinced, 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D10
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2  CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
4
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Memetics
Cultural
Hobby
Wardrobe
Cultural
Trained
Banter
People
Core
Etiquette
People
Core
Diplomacy
People
Core
The Look
ATB
ATB
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Literacy: Any
Cultural
Trained
Investigation
Espionage & Roguery
Trained
Language: Any
Cultural
Trained
Command Structure
Military
Trained
Any
People
Trained
Social Sciences: Any
Science
Trained



Circles - The Drifter is particularly gifted in the art of Ågsociety,Åh mixing and 
mingling with power players and the movers of their circle. When this 
Occupation is selected, the Drifter writes down a ÅgCircleÅh who listens to them. 
They gain another Circle every 3 Ranks.
Whenever they are interacting with a leader or official inside of their Circle., they 
gain a +1 to their Demeanor. This increases by +1 every 3 Ranks.
If the Drifter begins as a Senator, they gain a Second Circle automatically.

House of Cards - The Senator is always playing their enemies and allies against 
one another, every 2 Ranks, the Senator increases the total number of Contacts 
they have by +1. Every 4 Ranks they may promote a Contact to a Confidante, 
doing so treats the Confidante as if they were a Circle.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Civilian, Exile, or High Society
 
Starting Wealth: 1d100 * 15

Signature Focus: Society, Circles, Influence

Transfer Requirements: Two People Skills at 75% or Greater

Standard Transfer : Expert

?
Soldier (Man-At-Arms)
Veteran, Trooper, Commando, Ranger
	Courage, duty, honor, these are the words that a Soldier lives by. Where others fight out of 
necessity, the Soldier stood besides others fighting for higher ideals or beliefs, preferring to fight 
against the enemy of the state or their people. Soldiers are trained rigorously, their regimen 
demanding their ability to fight, survive, and thrive on the battlefield where every second counts. Less 
developed societies may also have Soldiers, brutal fighters with a brutal swing and war call.
	Soldiers who take up the DrifterÅfs life are often those whose service is at and end - willingly or 
not. Maybe theyÅfve retired, opting to spend what time they have now wandering the world, others 
desert their post, saving their own hide over their fellows. Others are ÅgSoldiersÅh in name only, fighting 
for the only cause that really matters - themselves. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d12 / CL
Health
+1d6 /  CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
3
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Armory
Military
Trained
Monster Hunter
Military
Trained
Scouter
Military
Trained
Tactics
Military
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
MIlitary
Trained
Banter
People
Trained
Land Navigation
Wilderness
Trained
Gambling
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Cooking
Cultural
Trained
War Veteran
ATB
ATB



Drilled and Ready - The Drifter increases their Combat 
Training by one step every 5 Ranks. 

THIS IS MY GUN! - The Drifter has been trained extensively in 
various firearms to defend themselves and their people, every 
3 Ranks the Drifter gains an additional Weapon Proficiency of 
their choice. 

 
Starting Equipment Package: Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d20 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Soldiery, Military

Transfer Requirements: Military Combat Training

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms


?
Summoner (Magic)
Caller, Binder, Manipulator, Servant
	Magicians specializing in the binding arts are referred to as Summoners, a misnomer derived 
from their appearance and often their own beliefs. When a Summoner creates an entity, they are 
binding a fragment of their soul to bind them together, forging a seemingly unbreakable bond 
between the Summoner and the Familiar itself. While vids, comics, and stories tell of demonic 
conjurer's plucking demons and monsters, the truth is that Summoners are just those with the 
knowledge to exert their influence over others, dominating other creatures and binding them to their 
will.
	Summoners arenÅft as beloved inside their own communities, a fear of being bound to another 
(real or imagined) forces many who learn the binding arts to wander. Whether they are looking for a 
place to call home or to control a power entity they meet, is yet to be seen. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D12
Finesse
D4
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
0
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
+1d10 / Rank
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Magic
Core
Empathy
People
Trained
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Language (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Lore: [School of 
Thought]
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Tear Knowledge
Science
Trained
Any
Magic
Trained


Starting Equipment Package: Magician
 
Starting Wealth: 1d20 x  10

Signature Focus: Soldiery, Military
Transfer Requirements: Astra 
Knowledge at 85%

Standard Transfer : Magic



Familiar - The Drifter has bound an entity to 
their service, this Familiar is a loyal servant and 
vessel for the DrifterÅfs power. The Drifter is a 
Companion with two Concepts of 12 and 8 
respectively. Wherever the Familiar is, the 
Drifter may cast Magic as if they were there 
instead. 
If the Familiar dies, the DrifterÅfs soul rends their 
body violently. The Drifter may resummon their 
Familiar and set their Heat at 10 for a Week. If 
the Drifter is ever burnt out, dies, or is rendered 
incapacitated, their Familiar is unsummoned 
and they must restart it.
Every 3 Ranks, the Drifter may increase a 
Concept of their Familiar by +1 or add a new 
Concept at 5.

Living Tether Conduit - The Drifter acts as a 
conduit for magical energy, allowing their 
summons to flow in and out of their body and 
tether them to reality. Every 4 Ranks, the Drifter 
may choose a new Living Tether Conduit perk.

Bind Another 
(15 MP)
The Drifter binds an entity to their service, they create a Companion 
with a Concept of 10 and 6. They are bound for [Wil * 5] Minutes.
Bind the Weak 
(5 MP)
The Drifter creates a Tiny Creature with a Concept of 10, They are 
bound for [WIL * 10] Minutes
Bound to 
Service (X MP)
The Drifter subjugates a magical creature or creature emboldened 
by Earthblood if they fail at a WIL Save. They take control of the 
Creature for [WIL * 2] Minutes. Mana Cost is equal to double the 
highest Concept.
Empower 
Familiar
The Drifter increases one of their FamiliarÅfs Concepts by +2, increase 
their total Health to [Largest Concept * 3].
Familiar Mimic 
(10 MP)
The Drifter creates an identical copy of their Familiar to control for 
[WIL * 10] Minutes.
MD Familiar
The DrifterÅfs Familiar, despite all appearances, is considered an MD 
Entity, allowing them to ignore Standard Damage entirely.
My Will Alone
The Drifter binds one of their Summons to their will permanently, they 
may take on a Summon or create a new Familiar.

Technician (Expert)
Developer, Engineer, Mechanic, Tinker
	When something is broken, someone will try and fix it. Technicians go by many names and have 
adopted many titles over the years, but they are the creators of the future and maintainers of the 
now. Technicians are the catch-all term for mechanics, engineers, architects, all the way to the most 
primitive inventors and creators. Valued across all of society in one way or another, Technicians can 
be found in positions of authority to little more than backwoods dirt farmers trying to eke out a living.
	Drifter Technicians are wandering tinkerers and creators, using their skills and knowledge to 
either build a better future or at least find a way to keep what they have functional. They may be 
formal and professional, they may be little more than a mysterious inventor trying to find a reason to 
keep going. Regardless of the reason, theyÅfre out on the Errant Earth trying to survive.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D8
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D6
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
3
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Trade: Any
Cultural
Core
Earth Mechanics: Any
Electrical & Mechanic
Core
Salvage Operations
Technical
Trained
Technical: Any
Technical
Core
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Electrical & Mechanic
Trained
Fortification
Military
Trained
Architecture
Technical
Trained
Piloting: Any
Technical
Trained
Electric Warfare
Military
Trained
Technical: Any
Technical
Core



Always Something To Fix - Technicians are drawn to 
broken things almost, The Technician adds their [Rank * 
3] to all Armor and Weapon Repairs. 

Working With Their Hands - The DrifterÅfs skill with their 
hands is unmatched when they have the time to focus. 
They add a Skill Tag to any Trade, Technical, or 
Mechanics Skill every 3 Ranks.

 
Starting Equipment Package: Technician or 
Handyman
 
Starting Wealth: 1d100 x 5

Signature Focus: Technical, Design, Mechanics

Transfer Requirements: Trade and Technical Skill in 
Machinery or Other Mechanical Focus at 75% or 
greater. 

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert


Vagabond (Adventurer)
Wanderer, Shadow,  Survivor, Scout, Hobo
	When the world fell in fire and ruin, the few who survived did so out of their own strength and 
will. Vagabonds are the natural continuation of that burning spirit to survive, wanderers by their own 
admission. The Vagabond typically comes into town, buys meager supplies before departing, never 
saying more than a few words and being a faint memory to those who saw him. Outside the bounds 
of civilization, the Vagabond has the survival skills to navigate the Errant Earth successfully, only to 
wander into and repeat their process.
	Drifters and Vagabonds are often one in the same, chance travellers on the road to something 
vaguely over the next horizon. While Drifters march with a purpose, the Vagabond wanders for their 
own accord, the two uniting to satisfy those two realities at once. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D8
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+1d2 / CL
Potential
+20
ESP / MP
-
Karma
3
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Trinkets
Cultural
Hobby
Stealth
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Naturalism
Wilderness
Core
Homesteading
Wilderness
Core
Bushcraft
Wilderness
Trained
Salvage Operations
Technical
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Language: Any
Cultural
Trained



Survivor - Upon taking this Occupation, the Drifter adds +2 to their 
Hardiness. If they started as a Vagabond, this increases to 1d4+2.  

Burning Will to Survive - The Vagabond refuses to die that easily, 
every 3 Ranks, they may choose one of their Attributes and have a +2 
to all Saves using that Attribute. This is not Psychic or Magic Resistance 
and can only be taken once per Attribute.

 
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 10 Credits worth of Baubles

Signature Focus: Nature, Practical, Survival

Transfer Requirements:  None, anyone can be a Vagabond.

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert

?
Initial Karma
	Karma is the measure of the weight of oneÅfs soul, the experiences both good and bad, and the 
drive to make a change in themselves and the world around them. In Errant Earth, Karma is the 
measure of adaptability that a Drifter has during their life. Karma is built up from each of the 
Backgrounds and Occupations that the Drifter has, being acquired and built up across their 
experiences.
	The DrifterÅfs initial Karma may be spent to acquire new Skills and abilities for the Drifter, 
enabling them to be better and shape their destiny more than those who have little Karma. As the 
Drifter increases their Character Level, they will be able to use their Karma more to improve 
themselves, but at a slower and costly rate. During this initial expenditure of Karma, the DrifterÅfs 
weight is being lifted off their shoulders as they go adventuring. Any remaining Karma is added to the 
DrifterÅfs total Karma for improvements.

Karma Perk
Karma Cost
Description
Add +1d10 ESP
2
The Drifter develops their ESP further, increasing it by +1d10. Requires 
Awakened Psychic Powers.
Add +1d10 MP
2
The Drifter develops their MP further, increasing it by +1d10. Requires 
Awakened Magic Powers.
Add +1d4 Health
2
The Drifter increases their Health by +1d4.
Add +1d6 Endurance
1
The Drifter increases their Endurance by an additional +1d6.
ATB Booster
2
Increase an Attribute by +1 up to a maximum of 18.
ATB Enhancer
2
Increase an Attribute by +1 up to a maximum of 24.
Awaken Magical 
Potential
3
The Drifter automatically awakens their Magical Potential if they are able.
Awaken Psychic 
Potential
3
The Drifter automatically awakens their Psychic Potential if they are able.
Change ATB to Favored 
Average
4
The Drifter changes one of their Attributes to the Favored Average .
Combat Speciality
2
The Drifter adopts a Combat Specialty of their choice.
Companion
4
The Drifter creates a Companion with a Concept at 10.
Cybernetic Intake
1 / Cybernetic 
Stress
The Drifter increases their Cybernetic Stress, allowing them to take on more 
intensive and invasive Cybernetics.
Increase Rank
4
The Drifter increases the Rank of a Background or Occupation.
New Core Skill
4
The Drifter adds a new Core Skill.
New Hobby Skill
1
The Drifter adds a new Hobby Skill.
New Trained Skill
2
The Drifter adds a new Trained Skill.
Reroll Attribute
1
The Drifter may reroll one of their Attributes entirely.
Species Rating
1 / Species 
Rating
The Drifter adds +1 to their total Species Rating, allowing for more Mutations or 
developing their Exo.
Weapon Proficiency
3
The Drifter adds a new Weapon Proficiency of their choice.
Wheels
1 / Chassis 
Rating
The Drifter may acquire a Default Vehicle equal to Karma Spent.
Standard Combat Skill
5
The Drifter increases their Combat Skill by one step up to Military Combat 
Training
Advanced Combat Skill
10
The Drifter increases their Combat Skill by one step up to Elite Combat 
Training
Derived Attributes
	Derived Attributes are determined after the Drifter has determined their Backgrounds and 
Occupations, Attributes, Skills, and Abilities.
The Strength Modifier
Each DrifterÅfs Strength Modifier is the average of 
their [Hardiness] and [Power] to determine how 
physically capable they are.

Strength
SD Bonus
MD Capable
Melee To-Hit
0 - 3
-3
No
-4
4 - 6
-2
No
-2
7 - 9
-1
No
0
10 - 12
0
No
+1
13 - 15
+2
No
+2
16 - 18
+4
No
+3
19 - 21
+6
Yes
+4
22 - 24
+8
Yes
+5
25+
+10
Yes
+6

Demeanor Rating
A Drifter's Demeanor is a measure of the default 
attitude many people will have toward the 
Drifter. Demeanor is equal to the average of 
[Bravado] and [Willpower]. 

Demeanor
Bonus
Contact
Attitude
0 - 3
-6
1
Repulsed, Horrified, Hated
4 - 6
-3
1
Disgusted, Distanced, 
Pained
7 - 9
0
2
Plain, Neutral, Uninterested
10 - 12
+1
3
Interested, Understood
13 - 15
+2
4
Friendly, Kind, Welcoming
16 - 18
+3
5
Charismatic, Magnetic
19 - 21
+4
6
Contagious, Empathetic
22 - 24
+5
7
Lovely, Enrapturing
25+
+6
8
Divine, Uncomfortable


The Reaction Modifier
The DrifterÅfs Reaction Modifier is a reflection of 
their quick reflexes and speed itself. They will 
find the average of their [Comprehension] and 
[Speed] to determine the result. 

Reaction
Initiative Bonus
Pace
0 - 3
-6
.25 
4 - 6
-3
.5
7 - 9
0
1
10 - 12
+1
2
13 - 15
+2
2
16 - 18
+4
3
19 - 21
+6
3
22 - 24
+8
4
25+
+10
5

Glimmer
The DrifterÅfs Glimmer is their Magic and Psychic 
Signature, an ÅgAuraÅh they produce for others to 
detect if they can. Glimmer is equal to the 10Åfs 
Place of both ESP and MP . 

Glimmer
Detection
Description
0
-10 / -100%
None / Flickering 
1 - 2
0
Throbbing
3 - 4
+1 / +10%
Faint / Subdued
5
+2 / 20%
Dim / Vibrant
6
+3 / 30%
Glowing / Present
7
+4 / 40%
Fiery / Imposing
8
+5 / 50%
Luminous / Resonant 
9
+6 / 60%
Bonfire / Majestic
10+
+7 / 70%
Inferno / Raging


Extra Sensory Power / Magic Power
Drifters who are capable of using Psychic Powers 
or Magic possess Extra Sensory Power (ESP) or 
Magic Power (MP).
ESP is the measure of control that a Drifter has 
over their Psychic Powers and abilities. When 
actively using them, the Drifter reduces their 
available ESP until they are able to rest.
MP is the amount of power that a Drifter has to 
use and project their Magical abilities. Whenever 
they use Magical Abilities or wish to enhance 
them, they will be tapping into their MP, restoring 
it when they are able to rest. 

Extra Sensory Power (ESP)
Magic Power (MP)
[ANM x 2] 
[WIL x 2]

Psychic / Magic Resistance Saves
Drifters who are exceptionally talented 
Magicians or Psychics can inherently protect 
themselves better against their diametric foe 
easier than most.
The Psychic / Magic Resistance bonus is 
generated when a Drifter unlocks their Psychic or 
Magical Potential - granting them extra defense 
against their opposite force. This is directly 
added to an Attribute when a Psychic or Magic 
Save is called to resist their effects.

Psychic Resistance is based on Willpower
Magic Resistance is based on Anima.

ATB
Bonus
0 - 6
None
7 - 12
+1
13 - 18
+2
19 - 24
+3
25+
+5



Size
Each Drifter begins at ÅgAverageÅh height unless 
specified by Background.

Small
Average
Big
Child
Adult Human
Bigfoot


Alignment
The DrifterÅfs moral alignment reflects their 
nature and demeanor toward others. Alignment 
is on a 5x4 Grid, representing Morality and 
Ethics. The Drifter chooses their own alignment 
or at least their perspective on themselves. 


Ontological
Realist
Relativist
Nihilist
Paragon
Messiah
Missionary
Vigilante
Lone Ranger
Lawful
Adjudicator
Officer
Citizen
Bureaucratic
Arbitrary
Egoist
Prideful
Self-Centered
Anarchist
Miscreant
Psychopath
Syndicate
Punk
Sociopath
Aberrant
Devil
Maniac
Sophist
Defiler

Paragon
Morally Virtuous, Helps Others Unprompted
Lawful
Morally Good, Helps Others with Reward
Arbitrary
Morally Neutral, Follows their Whims
Miscreat
Morally Wicked, Takes Selfish Action with 
Reward
Aberrant
Morally Evil, Takes Hostile Actions Unprompted.

Ontological
Complete Ideological Belief of Morals
Realist
Morals are objective, true, and tangible.
Relativist
Morals are malleable with society and situation.
Nihilist
Morals are fake, personal ideology trumps all.

Lift / Carry / Jump

Capacity
Calculation (Lbs)
Penalty
Light
(POW+HRD/2) x 5
None
Medium
(POW+HRD/2) x 10
-2 / -10% Penalty to Action
Heavy
(POW+HRD/2) x 
12.5
-4 / -20% Penalty to 
Action



Over Head
Heavy x 1.5
-3 NSR / -4 / -20%
Off 
Ground
Heavy x 2
-5 NSR / -6 / -30%
Push
Heavy x 4
-8 NSR / -8 / -40%



Vertical 
(Stand / Run)
(POW / 5) | (POW / 3)  Ft. Jump
Horizontal 
(Stand / Run)
(POW - 6) | (POW - 2) Ft. Jump


Packs & Credits
	When the Drifter chooses their Background and Occupations they will have access to a number 
of Packs and their starting Credits. Packs are a set of items and gear that the Drifter may pick up with 
useful supplies for their journey. A Drifter may select one Packs of their choice of any of their 
Backgrounds and Occupations they have access to. Drifters may instead exchange a Pack for Credits 
instead, often less than the total amount but being able to purchase what they wish.
	Finally, each Drifter has a set of starting Credits from their Backgrounds and Occupations. The 
Drifter adds all of their available Credits from each of the Backgrounds and Occupations they have. 
They may choose to save these or spend them in the equipment section.

New World Bible - Credits & Currency
Money makes the world go round, and the Great Lakes Confederacy needed to establish a base 
currency for their new ÅgFederation.Åh The GLC, Great Lakes Credit, is technically a digital currency 
with a backing of the energy of Stony Point, making it a popular coin for most people in the region. 
Actual ÅgCurrencyÅh is still used, basic script, sparkly coins, scrap, or whatever can be used to indicate 
value. The barter economy is still actively used in most places.

Background Occupation Mergers
	During their creation, the Drifter may acquire several skills or abilities that cross over with one 
another. Taking all of these abilities and merging them together is as simple as following this chart. 
The Best Variant refers to the Background or Occupation with the highest starting Development Rate 
(Hobby, Trained, or Core) or the highest quality (Military Combat Training vs Basic Combat Training). 
If the Drifter has chosen Skills as part of a Background or Occupation, such as Professional, they may 
apply these bonuses as well.


Best Variant
Merger
Attributes
Base
Base
Skills
Open at Base Value
Add +5/10/15%  to Base Value
Endurance / HP
Standard
Standard
Starting Credits
Standard
Standard
Starting Karma
Standard
Standard
Weapon Proficiency
Gain WP as Stated
Select any WP
Combat Training
Gain Stated Combat Training
Take an Additional Weapon 
Specialization
Weapon 
Specialization
Gain Stated Weapon Specialization
Select any Weapon Specialization
Endurance and Health
	Drifters have an unnatural belief that they are in fact immortal, something that is written on 
more epitaphs than one would think. Drifters get hurt, bloodied, maimed, and most other kinds of 
trauma the Errant Earth has to offer. To reflect the DrifterÅfs ability to absorb and take punishment, 
they have their total Endurance and Health.
	A DrifterÅfs Endurance measures their ability to shrug off injury, the near misses, scratches, 
bruises, and flesh wounds that stack up before they take the debilitating injuries tied to their Health. 
When Endurance reaches 0, the Drifter's Health will start being targeted, should they reach 0 Health, 
the Drifter will be killed. 
	The Drifter will add their starting Background and CareerÅfs bonuses immediately at Rank 1.

Endurance
2d6  + HRD (+1d4 / CL)
Health
HRD

Å@Å@Å@A Drifter will recover their Endurance after being able to rest for the night or being patched up 
in a medical tent. A normal human being will recover +1 Health every day, and +2 Health if they are 
under medical care. 
	If a Drifter would fall below 0 Health, they may instead take a Scar. Scars mitigate the damage 
they would have taken, but cause a permanent injury. Scars may be expressed as a -1 to an Attribute 
or narrative debilitation  (often requiring surgery or cybernetics to mitigate the loss of a limb or 
worse). If a Drifter were to ever take 5 or more Scars of any variety, they will be immediately 
removed from play due to the severe injuries and trauma they have endured.
 
	Endurance and Health are both considered to be Standard Damage meaning that if they are 
hit with a Mega Damage Weapon, it is immediately reduced to 0 (potentially fatal or risking an arm). If 
a Drifter would ever be considered to be a Mega Damage Capable individual through Mutations, 
Cybernetics, or their own physiology, then their Endurance and Health would work normally upon 
being hit with Mega Damage Weaponry - not being able to be pierced except by excessive varieties 
by Standard Damage sources however.
	To mitigate this, the survivors of the Collapse have retrofitted old designs and made their own 
new armors and weapons in the ancient arms race of armor and weaponry. Most Armor is 
considered to be Mega Damage capable except in deliberate circumstances. This is all a casual way 
to remind every Drifter, no matter how brave or mighty - always take care of your armor.
Warfare on Errant Earth
	Bloodshed has been part of human history as long as there has been history, and when the 
Tears ripped apart the world after the first manmade apocalypse many thought it would be the end. 
Unfortunately, warfare is human. The Errant Earth is filled with monsters, cyborgs, mutants, bandits, 
and militaries who wage a never ending war against one another for survival. While many would 
rather avoid it, the Drifter's life is rarely free of conflict, often finding themselves in the heart of a battle 
with little more than their wits, damaged armor, and a loaded rifle. 
	During combat in Errant Earth, the Drifters will be using a combination of Attribute, Skill, and 
Combat Checks to win the day. A Combat Check uses a D20 with the Drifter attempting to beat their 
target's Survival Rating to hit and deal damage. Rather than a traditional Attribute Check, the Combat 
Check sees if the Drifter manages to meet or exceed the Survival Rating of their target - though this 
does allow them to modify their chances and also avoid any retaliation that may be coming for them.

Seizing the Initiative
	When a combat situation occurs, all of the Drifters and their enemies will need to roll their 
Initiative to determine their Action Order. The Action order resolves in descending order, with the 
highest result acting first and lowest acting last.	

1d20 + [Reaction Modifier] + [Modifiers]

	When a Drifter's Initiative is called, they will be able to take a Turn, allowing them to use their 
Actions gained through their Combat Training. All of the combatant's Turns compose a Round, with 
each of these Rounds being broken up into roughly ten-seconds of frantic movement, quick shots, and 
haphazard plans. 
	If the Drifters were to ambush the opposing group, each of the Drifters would roll their Initiative 
and determine their Acting Order as usual. However, their enemies would be unable to take any 
Actions or Reactions during this Ambush if they are surprised, rolling for their Initiative at the start of 
the next Round and slot themselves into the Acting Order alongside the Drifters. If the Drifters were to 
set themselves up in a clearly defensible position with a kill zone and lines of fire, the same event will 
occur except for the defending side, allowing the Drifters to take a few potshots and actions against 
the assaulting enemy force. 

The Wayward Notes - An ÅgRealÅh Example
A group of bandits are camped far outside the town where the Drifters were hired to stop them, meandering around the campfire with a few of them 
still armed and patrolling, but unaware of the danger. If the DrifterÅfs open up fire on the unaware enemy - they have Ambushed them.
Later on, for retaliation against their group that was cut down, the Bandit Leader sends his entire gang after the town. Being able to hold the line with 
their rudimentary defenses, the Drifters have a Defensive Position, and are able to crack a few shots off on the approaching horde. 
 
Both of these situations would allow the Drifters an initial set of Actions against their enemies and potentially turn the tide. 
But remember, this may also happen to the Drifters.
?
Natural & Mechanized Survival Rating
	During combat the Drifter will be maneuvering frantically looking for cover or attempting to 
position themselves for the decisive blow. What determines their ability to avoid the hospital or an 
early grave, as well as determine their ability to strike an enemy in retaliation is measured by their 
Survival Rating.
	Natural Survival Rating (NSR) is the standard difficulty to strike an aware combatant who is not 
actively in cover or seeking to defend themselves actively. The NSR rating is determined by the size of 
the individual representing how difficult it is to pinpoint a shot on them as they scramble to avoid 
injury. Whenever a Drifter is attempting to attack an enemy, they will need to meet or exceed their 
targetÅfs NSR. The ÅgDefaultÅh NSR of an average sized human is 4, thus a Drifter would need to meet or 
exceed 4 on their D20 to hit.

Base NSR Table
Tiny
Small
Average
Big
Huge
Massive
6
5
4
3
2
1
Rat
Child
Adult Human
Bigfoot
Ogre
?????

	When a Vehicle is being piloted by a Drifter or an enemy, as long as they are moving, they will 
possess an MSR, Mechanized Survival Rating, based on the same size principles. If a Vehicle is not in 
motion and not moving, it is considered an object and can be hit with relative ease. Rigs & Titanic 
Vehicles have a 0 for their MSR, indicating that any attack against them will most likely hit - but with 
their armor and size, damaging them may be more complicated than hitting. 

Base MSR Table
Personal
Compact
Mid-Size
Large
Rig
Titanic
4
3
2
1
0
0
Motorcycle
Zippy Hover Car
MPV Boar
Minivan
Semi-Truck
Land Fortress

Armor Rating
	During their adventures, the Drifters will need to keep track of many things, but the Armor 
Rating of their Armor is important in combat. Armor Rating is how durable and protective the armor is, 
allowing the Drifter to shrug off certain attacks who can't be the threshold.
	NSR represents the Drifter's ability to avoid being shot or hit, Armor Rating allows some of those 
hits to bounce.

?
Combat Actions
	When it is the Drifter's turn they will have a number of Actions available to them equal to their 
current Combat Training, one to six. These Actions are split between Momentum and Reactive. 
Momentum Actions are when it is the Drifter's turn, allowing them to be more proactive in how they 
spend their Actions. Alternatively, a Reactive Action (or Reaction) is used when it is not the Drifter's 
Turn, allowing them to either defend themselves more actively, make snap decisions, or protect 
others.
	A Drifter may use as many or as Actions as they wish, but Momentum and Reactions use the 
same pool of Actions as well. If a Drifter uses all of their Actions during Momentum, they cannot use 
any in a Reaction, but if they are forced to use a number of Reactions, they may have nothing to do 
during their turn.
	Both Melee and Ranged Attacks do not have a traditional Skill like Bartering or Naturalism, 
instead any Drifter can reasonably use any weapon they get their hands on. However to become truly 
skilled in a Weapon, they will need a Weapon Proficiency, or a WP. A WP in a Weapon allows the Pilot to 
use Expertise on their attacks, modifying their attack with bonuses and penalties to inflict Called Shots, 
Feinting Attacks, or actually aiming properly.
	If a Drifter is unable (or unwilling) to use all of their Actions by the end of the Round, the Drifter 
converts all of their remaining Actions to their current Personal Initiative, allowing them to act earlier in 
the Action Order. 

?
Momentum Actions
Attack, Melee
The Drifter makes an attempt to strike a Target 
who is adjacent to them on the field with a 
weapon or their fists. The Drifter makes a 
Combat Check of 1d20 + [Modifiers] versus 
TargetÅfs NSR. If successful, the Attack deals 
damage equal to their weapon. 

Attack, Ranged
The Drifter makes an attempt to strike a Target 
who is within range of their weapon. The Drifter 
makes a Combat Check of 1d20 + [Modifiers] 
versus TargetÅfs NSR. If successful, the Attack 
deals damage equal to their weapon. 

Delay
The Drifter holds their Action until a trigger occurs, 
allowing them to snap into Action once the trigger 
is set. For example: ÅgIf someone rounds the 
corner, I will shoot them with my gun.Åh

Maneuver
The Drifter is able to move up to their Movement 
Value dictated by their Reaction Derived 
Attribute.

Other
The Drifter performs an action that requires 
effort. For example: Opening a door requires no 
effort, kicking in the same door to break it open 
would take a [Other] Action. 

Power
The Drifter uses one of their Magic Spells or a 
Psychic Power - paying the MP / ESP Cost as well 
as resolving the effects. Different Magic Spells or 
Psychic Powers may require additional Actions to 
resolve. 

Refocus
The Drifter takes a second to breathe, soaking in 
the atmosphere of the battlefield around them. 
They increase their Initiative by +2 for the next 
Round or clear a Condition. 
Reload
The Drifter reloads a weapon on their person. If 
the Drifter does not have a Weapon Proficiency 
with the weapon, this takes two Actions. 

Skill
The Drifter uses one of their Skills. They will 
perform a Skill Check and determine the results.

Tool
The Drifter uses a tool, Utility Item,, or object on 
their person or in the immediate area and 
resolves its effects. 
 

?

Vehicle Combat Actions
	During Vehicle Combat, whoever is piloting the Vehicle may perform the same type of 
Actions as above, but instead relying on their Vehicles current options. In addition to those 
Momentum Actions, the Drifter has a number of Vehicle specific Actions. 

Vehicle System
The Drifter triggers one of their VehicleÅfs 
Upgrades, Traits, Items, or built-in safety 
features and resolves the effects immediately. 

Ram
Entering Ramming Speed allows the Drifter to 
slam into an opposing vehicle or individual in an 
adjacent Space (or within 5 Meters). 
If it is against a different Vehicle that is currently 
not moving - both will take [5 - Ramming 
Size]D10 Damage to their Hull. If it is against a 
humanoid target with an NSR, they must make 
a Combat Check against double their NSR . 
Dealing [8 - Ramming Size]D10 Damage as 
either Standard or Mega Damage (Vehicle 
Dependent).
If the Vehicle has a Melee Weapon Hardpoint, 
they instead make an attack with their Melee 
Weapon first before registering the Ram. 
Ejection & Shutdown
The Drifter performs a Controlled Ejection, 
popping their cockpit to reveal themselves. For 
an additional Action, the Drifter may completely 
shutdown their Vehicle as well.

Emergency Repairs
The Drifter makes the appropriate Mechanics 
Skill Check to perform emergency repairs inside 
of their Vehicle. If they are successful, they add 
+1d6 Durability to their Hull.

Maneuver
The Drifter moves a number of Spaces equal to 
their VehicleÅfs Pace. 

Other
The Drifter performs an action that requires 
effort. For example: Moving debris to the side 
for civilians to escape. 

?
Weapon Expertise
	Performing a Weapon Expertise requires that the Drifter has the appropriate Weapon 
Proficiency to enhance their attacks. The number of Actions required, in addition to the starting action 
to perform the attack, are noted in parentheses. Each Expertise may only be applied once to a single 
attack .

Aim Down Sights (Ranged) (+1)
The Drifter takes careful and precise aim right 
down their sights. They add +4 to their Combat 
Check. 

All-In-Strike (Melee) (+1)
The Drifter hefts their weapon and attempts to 
deliver a savage blow. They move up to their 
Combat Speed and attack the Target. If they 
are successful, it deals double (x2) damage. 

Called Strike (+1)
The Drifter attempts to strike a specific part of 
the body on their Target using a Single Shot or 
Melee Attack. Each Location has an Attack 
Penalty, but if successful, will strike the part.

Part
Penalty
Arm
-4
Foot
-8
Groin
-6
Gut
-2
Hand
-8
Head 
-10
Leg 
-4
Torso
-2

Cleave (Melee) (+1)
The Drifter makes a large sweep with their 
weapon with the intent of attacking up to three 
targets within reach of their melee weapon.
Feint (Melee) (+1)
The Drifter fakes out the Target, if they manage 
to hit the TargetÅfs NSR or MSR (no modifiers to 
defense), they will do no damage. All future 
attacks for the rest of the Turn are at +10 to hit.

Precise Strike (Melee) (+1)
The Drifter focuses on a single strike of their 
weapon, they add +5 to their Combat Check 
when using a Melee Weapon.

Spray (Ranged - Automatic) (+1)
The Drifter sprays recklessly at their target, their 
Attack is considered to have [Suppression], if 
their weapon already has [Suppression] they 
gain +2 to hit.


The Wayward Notes - Expertise in Action
Hunk the Adonis Mercenary is confronting a 
Skindancer in the woods, the creature is currently 
wearing the flesh of one unfortunate soul and seeks 
to add his to the collection. 
Hunk manages to go first, as he has a [Weapon 
Expertise] in Kinetic Long Rifles he opts to go for a 
disabling shot on the shambling horror.

He elects to make a Ranged Attack (1), Called 
Strike for the Leg (+1), and Aim Down Sights (+1). 
For three Actions, Richard is going to try and blow 
off the SkindancerÅfs leg. 

Normally the Called Strike is a -4 to Hit, but as he is 
Aiming Down Sights, he gets a +4 to Hit. So he just 
has to hit the SkindancerÅfs NSR of 5. Suggesting it 
doesnÅft try and dodge. 


?
Reactive Actions
Block 
Declared after a Successful Attack on the Drifter. 
The Drifter blocks the attack with their shield or 
other implement instead. The weaponÅfs damage 
is instead redirected to the shield or other object. 
If the Damage exceeds the Block Capacity of the 
Object, it is destroyed. 

Dive
Declared after being made the Target of an 
Attack. The Drifter throws themselves out of 
harm's way, consuming all remaining Actions and 
they are considered Prone. 

Dodge
Declared after being made the Target of an 
Attack. The Drifter attempts to Dodge the 
Attack, they will roll a Combat Check with a D20 
+ [Reaction Modifier] versus the AttackerÅfs 
Combat Check. If successful, the Drifter dodges 
the attack without issue.. 

Dodging a . . .
Penalty
Melee Attack
0
Energy Firearm
-8
Kinetic Firearm
-4
Explosive / Area Attack
Impossible
Attack Magic / Psychic Powers
-4

Intercede
Declared after an Ally is targeted by an Attack. 
The Drifter may choose to do one of the 
following:
Åú	Harry Enemy - If the Drifter is within range of 
the enemy with their own weapon, the Enemy 
has a -3 to their Combat Roll.
Åú	Shield Ally - Drifter takes damage Partners 
stead if they are within the same Space. 
Parry
Declared after being made the Target of an 
Attack. The Drifter attempts to Parry a Melee 
Attack, they roll a D20 versus the AttackerÅfs Roll. 
If Successful, the Drifter parries the blow and 
may make a Melee Attack for an additional 
Action. 

Parrying a . . .
With a . . .
Modifier
Improvised Weapon
Weapon
+2
Improvised Weapon
Unarmed Strike
-3
Unarmed Strike
Weapon
+4
Unarmed Strike
Improvised Weapon
+2
Weapon
Weapon
0
Weapon
Unarmed Strike
-6
Weapon
Improvised Weapon
-2

Roll With Punch
Declared after taking damage from an Attack. 
The Drifter attempts to mitigate a small amount 
of damage from an attack, they spend as many 
Actions as they wish to reduce Damage by -1d6 
for each Action spent.  
 
	 The Drifter may acquire their immense 
speed, magical or psychic powers, and even 
certain Combat Specializations the ability to 
Auto-Dodge or Auto-Parry. An Auto-Dodge or 
Auto-Parry allows the Drifter to immediately 
make a Dodge or Parry Reaction that does not 
cost any of their Actions. The Drifter must 
declare they are using an Auto-Dodge or Auto-
Parry after the attack is declared as they would 
normally - any remaining Auto-Dodge or Auto-
Parry is lost upon the Round's completion and 
returned normally as if they were Actions.
?
Taking Damage
	Eventually the Drifter's luck will run out and they will be hit with a weapon that will deal damage 
to them. If the Drifter is a fool and they are hit with an Mega Damage Weapon, they die immediately 
(but may take a Scar) as they are vaporized, dismembered, or other horrible fates. If they are 
wearing armor or are hit with a Standard Damage Weapon, they will take damage as normal.
	When the Drifter takes damage, they will first reduce any Armor they are currently wearing 
first. A standard Gladiator Armor Set may have 60 Durability, allowing them to take up to 60 Mega 
Damage before it breaks open and reveals the guts of the Drifter. MD Armor does work on a 
threshold though, meaning that when MD Armor takes damage that would destroy it, the excess 
damage is lost as the Drifter staggers from the attack. 

SD Weapon
vs
SD Armor
result
Record Damage Normally
SD Weapon
vs
SD Endurance or Health
result
Record Damage Normally
SD Weapon
vs
MD Armor
result
Record 0 Damage 
MD Weapon
vs
SD Armor
result
Immediate Destruction
MD Weapon
vs
SD Endurance or Health
result
Immediate Death
MD Weapon
vs
MD Armor
result
Record Damage Normally
GD Weapon
vs
Any
result
Immediate Death

Critical Hits and Critical Damage
Å@Å@Å@When fortune smiles on the Drifter and they roll a 20 on their Combat Check and they have the 
proper Weapon Proficiency, they have inflicted a CRITICAL HIT on the target and instantly succeeds in 
their attack as well as choosing one of the following. 

Critical Effect
Description
Bloody
The Drifter rolls damage twice and adds both together for the final damage.
Focused
When making an Attack, the Drifter chooses a Hit Location. If this is a Called Strike, 
they may change the Hit Location.
Hyped
The Drifter feels the surge of power, they restore +1d6 Endurance.
Link Strike
One of the DrifterÅfs allies within the same Space as the target who took a Critical, 
may take a Momentum Action immediately for no cost.
Reeling
The Drifter inflicts the [Stun] Condition on the Target.
Puncture
The Drifter deals 1d6 Damage to either Health or Endurance if the Target is 
wearing Armor, ignoring their Armor entirely.
?

Flesh Hit Locations
Location
Effect
Penalty to Hit
Scar ATB
Arm
The Drifter drops whatever they were carrying.
-4
POW or FIN
Foot
The Drifter drops [Prone] as their foot is blasted half off.
-8
FIN or SPD
Groin
The Drifter experiences agonizing pain, they take +4d6 Damage.
-6
ANY
Gut
The Drifter suffers a gut shot, they lose 1d6 Health every round until they are 
treated.
-2
ANY
Hand
The Drifter drops whatever they were holding in that hand, but takes half 
damage.
-8
FIN
Head
The Drifter has been shot in the head - Roll 1d20, on a 1 or 2, they are instantly 
killed. If they roll a 3+, they take an additional +3d6 Damage.
-10
ANY
Leg
The DrifterÅfs leg has been shot, they move at half Speed. If both legs are shot, 
they must be dragged away by an ally.
-4
POW or SPD
Torso
The Drifter is shot in the chest - Roll 1d20, on a 1, a vital organ is hit and they 
take +3d6 Damage.
-2
HRD
Hit Locations are generalized toward humanoid shapes, adding additional appendages, body parts, or worse may result in 
different Hit Locations. The Errant Earth is a massive place, hosting more than a few freaks.
	
Armored Hit Locations
Location
Effect
Penalty to Hit
Arm
The Drifter drops whatever they were carrying.
-4
Foot
The Drifter is slightly staggered, they lose -2 Personal Initiative.
-8
Groin
Nothing, but the feeling remains. They must make a WIL Save, if they fail they take -4 to 
all Actions for the remainder of the Round.
-6
Gut
Staggering back, the Drifter must make a HRD Save, if they fail, they lose an Action.
-2
Hand
The Drifter drops whatever they were holding in that hand, but takes half damage.
-8
Head
The DrifterÅfs sight has been distorted, they gain the [Stun] Condition.
-10
Leg
The DrifterÅfs leg has been shot, they move at half Speed. If both legs are shot, they must 
be dragged away by an ally.
-4
Torso
Staggering back, the Drifter must make a HRD Save, if they fail, they lose an Action.
-2
?
Combat Mapping
	Combat takes place on the battlefield, forcing the Drifters to think accordingly to their 
surroundings to deal with the enemies before them (or attempt to run away faster than they can 
reach them). Battlefields are subdivided into two "types" of engagement distance: Field Combat and 
CQC. 

Field Combat	
	The most traditional type of battlefield that the Drifters will find themselves on is Field Combat. 
The GM will take a map and subdivide it into squares that represent 15 x 15 foot chunks of territory 
that the Drifters and their enemies may inhabit. 
	These squares are referred to as Spaces, pieces of ground that a Drifter can maneuver around 
in as well as dictate an engagement distance between enemies. The Drifters may attempt to cover 
ground equal to their Pace, effectively measuring how far a single Action may carry them.
	A Reaction  of 15 means that a Drifter has a Pace of 2 - this means that the Drifter may cover 2 
Spaces for one Action. If the Drifter had a 4 Reaction and a .5 Pace, they would take two Actions to 
move into an adjacent Space. 
 
	Due to the size of each of the Spaces, multiple Drifters or Enemies may be standing in a single 
Space unimpeded. If a Drifter and an Enemy are in the same Space, they are considered to be within 
Melee Range (Range 0). There is no strict limit to the number of people that may be in a single Space, 
though when a grenade is lobbed into it, most will attempt to scatter. 
	Each Space can only support one Vehicle of Mid-Size or Two Compacts. If a Vehicle were to 
enter a Space already occupied by another Vehicle, then a crash would occur, or worse. Personal size 
Vehicles are able to be with their rider regardless of the size, but these motorbikes and trikes can 
rarely take the firepower of a dedicated assailant. 
	Whenever a Drifter is using a Ranged Weapon, they will need to check the Range on the 
weapon itself. Any Weapon used inside of their Minimum Range or outside of their Maximum Range 
incurs a -2 Combat Check Penalty per Space. Certain Weapons, such as Melee, can only be used in 
certain situations or at certain ranges. 
	For example, using a Battle Rifle with a Maximum Range of 5, shooting at a Target at 7 Spaces 
would incur a -4 Combat Check Penalty on the Attacker.
 
	Certain Spaces may contain environmental features that may impact the ability for the Drifter 
to act or allow them additional options. These boil down to Cover, Free Fall, Rough, and Hazardous 
Terrain.
?

Cover
	Combat is a game of cat and mouse, and 
learning when to be which is often the key to 
success. Spaces with Cover have dedicated 
locations and areas to allow the Drifter to put 
something between them and their enemies. 
Cover comes in three varieties: Light, Heavy, and 
Complete.
	Light Cover covers situations of half-
concealment or obfuscation of attacks, as long as 
the Drifter is in a Space with Light Cover they may 
choose to gain a +4 to their NSR representing the 
increased difficulty to hit them. For an Action, the 
Drifter may attempt to further hide themselves or 
make themselves more difficult to hit, increasing 
the bonus to +6 to their NSR, but they may not 
Attack or make Reactions.
	Heavy Cover places hard walls, awkward 
angles, or encompassing foliage to mitigate 
attacks against the Drifter. As long as the cover 
can reasonably take up 80% of the Drifter's body, 
it's considered to be in Heavy Cover. While in 
Heavy Cover, they have a +6 to their NSR, but if 
they take an action to hunker down, this increases 
to a +10 to their NSR.
	Finally, Complete Cover has the Drifter 
break line of sight of the enemy entirely. No one 
can attack a target they can't reasonably see. If 
they are firing blindly at where the Drifter "should 
be" the Drifter has the hunkered down Heavy 
Cover bonus of +10 to their NSR as well as 
imposing a -10 penalty on the Attacker who 
cannot see them.
	If the Attacker is in the same Space as the 
Drifter, then Cover demotes by one step if the 
Attacker is using a Ranged Weapon. However, if 
the Attacker is declaring a Melee Attack, then 
cover does nothing as the assailant rushes their 
position immediately.
Rough Terrain
	Spaces with Rough Terrain are difficult to 
navigate due to sludge, foliage, water, or anything 
that would hinder movement. The Drifter's Pace is 
considered to be two steps lower than it actually 
is when attempting to leave the Space.
	For example, if a Drifter is knee deep in a 
swamp, their Pace of 3 would go down to 1. While 
a Drifter at 1 would go down to .25 instead. A 
Drifter cannot fall below .25 Pace.

Hazardous Terrain
	The Space is actively attempting to harm 
or at least damage the Drifter outright. These 
Spaces come in three varieties: Standard 
Hazards, Mega Hazard, and Giga Hazards each 
correlating to the 2d6 Damage that will incur as 
long as the Drifter is in the Space or walks through 
the Space to reach a different location.

Standard
Mega
Giga
Fire, Poison Gas
Plasma, Magic
Lava, Nuclear Waste

Free Fall
	Reasonably speaking, this could be 
referred to as "Flight." If a Drifter has the ability to 
fly through equipment, abilities, or features they 
may loom above the Space itself being treated as 
if they were +1 Space away, but ignoring all 
Features. But they may still declare a Melee 
Attack in the Space below them, swooping down 
to deliver a blow. If an enemy also has flight, the 
two Engaged targets treat the "Free Fall Zone" as 
if they were in their own Space.
	The Free Fall aspect comes from the more 
likely scenario of falling. Every "Space" above the 
current one incurs a stacking 3d6 Damage to the 
Drifter should they fall from it. Thus falling 30 Feet 
(2 Spaces) would deal 6d6 Damage. However, 
this Damage is either SD if the Target does not 
have Armor on, or MD if they do. This SD Damage 
targets the DrifterÅfs Health directly instead of 
resolving Endurance first.
	Armor may cushion one's blow, but parts 
will be jumbled, containment protocols punctured, 
and disaster looming.

?
CQC 
	Most firefights that occur are rarely the practiced military engagements or structured battles in 
the field. Someone draws a knife in a bar, another quickly draws a revolver with enough force to 
punch through armor, while the Psychic readies to cut both down in a second. 
	CQC, or Close Quarters Combat, are situations in which the current fight is not occuring at a 
reasonable distance to represent via Field Combat. Normally, these are spur of the moment combats 
where everyone is within 15 to 30 Feet of one another. Rather than tracking exact distances, the entire 
area becomes awash in combat as both sides either open up or charge one another.
	CQC Battles are considered to be "Theatre of the Mind" in which most enemies are within 
reasonable distance to pop off snap shots or get into melee at a moment's notice. Treat all CQC 
Battles as if they are taking place in the same Space for purposes of Weapon Ranges and abilities. 
	Should the battle evolve beyond the natural limits of the CQC, then Field Combat may be 
elected to be used to represent the expanding battlefield unfolding. But few tend to last that long.

Vehicles on the Map
	Similar to Drifter on Drifter battles, Vehicles can find themselves playing a massive part in 
different fights. The basic rules still apply to both scenarios - Vehicles in Field Combat will take up a 
number of Spaces in the field, representing their "girth" as much as their use. A Large or Mid-Size 
Vehicle can take up one Space and still support an entire party defending it from attackers. Rigs 
take up to six Spaces depending on their load and cargo, while a Titanic Vehicle outright replaces 
up to 16 (4 x 4) Spaces depending on the size.
	If the Vehicle has a Turret or otherwise can be used for combat, the Vagabond must be in the 
Vehicle (taking a Momentum Action to enter if they are outside) to use the equipment successfully. 
However, as long as a Vehicle is in a Space, the Drifters may choose to use it as Cover.

Vehicles in Field Combat Table
Personal
Compact
Mid-Size
Large
Rig
Titanic
Light Cover
Light Cover
Heavy Cover
Heavy Cover
Heavy Cover
Complete Cover 
or Heavy Cover 
Any Number
2 per Space
1 per  Space
1 per  Space
1 per  4-6 Spaces
1 per  12 to 16 
Spaces


?
Mystica Magica
	Magic is the art of manipulating Earthblood in the 
body, projecting it out in a devastating flurry of magical 
energy to tear enemies apart and bend reality to the 
whims of the Drifter. Learning the craft of Magic is a long 
road that takes decades to fully master, but there are 
always shortcuts to power that magicians yearn to 
discover. Magic is the power to bend and twist, should it 
not be the power to change oneself entirely?
	When the Drifter increases their Character Level or 
someone attempts an Awakening Ritual on them, they will 
roll 1d100 under their Magical Potential. If they succeed, 
they open their Magical pathways and gain their base 
amount of Magic Power in addition to any bonuses 
granted to them by their Occupation. 

Magical Potential Chance
Base Value
50%
Awakened Psychic
-50%
Awakening by Earthblood Geyser
+15%
Background & Occupation
Variable
Per Character Level
-3%
Per Cybernetic Stress
-5%
Per Rank in Psychic Career
-6%
Magic Awakened Companions
+3%
Psychic Awakened Companions
-3%
Child (0 - 12)
+15%
Teenager (13 - 19)
+5%
Adult (20 - 45)
-
Aged (46+)
-40%

Magic Power
	Magic Power, or MP, is an abstraction created by accredited universities to explain the 
phenomenon of Magicians Ågrunning out of energyÅh during prolonged use of magical power. The 
explanations for why this occurs vary from internal chemistry, intangible forces, to the more 
reasonable ÅgMagic Power is created by others to oppress less capable magicians.Åh Regardless of the 
truth, when the Drifter uses magical powers they are drawing from their total MP to project it 
outward. If they were to ever run out, they would be able to manage little more than a few measly 
sparks and pull a muscle.

Magic Power (MP)
[WIL x 2] + [Background / Occupation Bonus / CL]

	Whenever the Magician uses a Spell, they will calculate the total Strain it costs their body to 
use, reducing their Magic Power when itÅfs cast. A Spell Strain is equal to the amount of components it 
takes to cast it successfully - trained Magicians have developed methods to reduce the amount of 
Strain individual magical abilities cost, but it mostly depends on the Schools of Thought that dominate 
the method in which magic is taught to others.?

	Magic Power recovers to full after a complete rest 
(8 Hours for Humans), ingesting Prana Potions, or by 
soaking in the latent energy of Earthblood. 
	In desperate circumstances, each of the Schools of 
Thought have devised their own methods to recover 
Magic Power, the ÅgQuick and DirtyÅh method. Often this 
requires the Magician to perform some variety of action or 
sacrifice something in exchange for a few drops of Magic 
Power they can squeeze from their bodies. 
 
	Standing by or hunting for Earthblood Geysers are a 
sure way for the Magician to recover their Magic Power 
quickly. Soaking in the latent energy to replenish their own 
stockpile. Standing by a Geyser or Wound for too long will 
invoke a Power Surge as the energy starts supercharging 
the Magician's body. This causes them to undergo mood 
swings, vast quantities of Magic Power and manic 
restlessness.
	Many who experience the rush feel dead inside 
when the Wound closes or they are taken away from the 
Geyser directly. Often coming down off of it hard by 
resting for multiple days in a row.

Magic Power Recovery
Complete Rest (8 Hours)
100%
Incomplete Rest (Less than 8 Hours)
50%
Hour by an Earthblood Geyser
+2d10
Blood Transfusion
+1d10
Meditation during Downtime
WIL

Earthblood Power Surge
Time
Effect
1 Hour
Invigoration, Focused, Rested
6 Hours
Manic Mood Swings, Fully Awake
1 Day
Restlessness, Heart Palpitations
3 Days
Medical Coma (1d6+2 Days)
7 Days
Mutation, Changing Body Chemistry



Schools of Thought
	Due to its volatile nature, the ÅgSchools of ThoughtÅh are the various methods that Magicians 
across the Errant Earth have used to harmonize their teachings and infuse their power with a structure 
it so desperately needs. Across the Great Lakes Confederacy, there are seven dominant Schools of 
Thought that permeate most education and fields of magic.
	Each School of Thought has its own discrete teachings to further refine their techniques, but 
each will have the Average Grimoire Size when learning about or developing new Magic Spells, the 
number of Cantrips that they receive per Character Level, as well as a number of Signature Foci 
similar to Backgrounds or Occupations. If the Magician has no formal training, they are considered a 
Free Magician and possess no bonuses or issues until they undergo proper training. 

Schools of Thought
Average Grimoire Size
Cantrips
Signature Foci
Druidic Circles
3 - 6
+1 / 2 CL
Nature, Roots, Shaping
Elemental Physics
3 - 5
+1 / CL
Element of Choice
Fiend Knowledge
2 - 15
+1 / 3 CL
Fiends, Chaos
School of Occultism
3 - 4
+1 / 5 CL
Mysteries, Arcana
Technomancy
6 - 7
+1 / 2 CL
Technology, Interface
Theurgy
1 - 3
+1 / 6 CL
Religious, Holy Symbols
Tulpamancy
2 - 4
+1 / 3 CL
Imagination, Distorted

Druidic Circles

Elemental Physics
 

 
Description

Description
The Drifter has learned magic from the druidic 
circles of nature magicians. Druids are a self-
contained group more concerned with keeping 
ancient knowledge and going with the flow of the 
natural world. 

The Elements are a tangible force in the world 
and as such itÅfs impossible to not apply scientific 
theory to it. Elemental Physics is a branch of Magi-
Scientific Study over the Elemental Planes. 
Cryomancers, Pyromancers, the works.
Discrete Teaching: Flower Language

Discrete Teaching: Mancer Training
The Drifter knows the Flower Language (20% + 4%) 
which allows them to communicate with Animals, 
Plants, and other living organisms.

The Drifter has their Elemental Foundation as an 
Inscribed Glyph: Aeros, Geos, Hydros, or Pyros
Recovery: Moonburn or Solar Growth

Recovery: Perfect Embodiment
The Drifter will need to choose if they are Moon 
Circle or Solar Circle Druids - if they strip naked 
and meditate in their preferred environment 
(Night / Day) they will make a full MP Recovery in 
an Hour.

The Drifter chooses an Element they have 
Inscribed and subjects themselves to a meditative 
trance in it (superheated room, freezer, etc)  to 
recover an additional +1d10 MP / Hour.

Fiend Knowledge

School of Occultism
 

 
Description

Description
The Drifter has learned the art of magic from 
Fiends, Demons, and Devils. The information has 
been either extracted through torture or servitude 
to these Åghigher powers.Åh Hostile magic is what it is, 
dangerous, volatile, chaotic. 

Occultism is the study of the Unfounded Elements, 
distorted Non-Elements and more bizarre 
energies that are drawn upon. Education is 
sporadic and passed from Master to Pupil in 
private, often close, relationships. 
Discrete Teaching: Soul Rending

Discrete Teaching: False Eye
The Drifter knows dark techniques to tear out 
Inscribed Spell, Gesture, or Glyph from a Magician 
they have killed

The Drifter has an Occultic Scrip as an Inscribed 
Glyph: Hex, Luxos, Mentat, Death, Physicallica, 
Sonica, or Umbros.
Recovery: Blood From Stone

Recovery: Steal from the Aether
The Drifter is practiced in appeasing their infernal 
patron - they demand blood sacrifice, allowing the 
Drifter to convert their Endurance at a 1 END to 1 
MP exchange, and Health at a 1 HP to 5 MP.

Occultist Drifters are able to ÅgPluckÅh Magic from 
the world around them, they recover 1d6 MP every 
minute - but their Glimmer doubles during this 
time as they devour magical energy in an area.


Technomancy

Theurgy
 

 
Description

Description
The modern world needs modern magic, 
Technomancy is the fusion of magical arts with 
technology to create a hybridized version of both. 
By relying on technology and machinery, they 
have progressed past the need for ÅgLower Arts.Åh

Faith is power, and Theurgy is a mixture of the 
religious teaching and manipulation of magic to 
mimic those teachings. Theurgists are usually 
cloistered in monasteries, but many also wander 
to spread the good word or perform ÅgMiracles.Åh
Discrete Teaching: Technomancy

Discrete Teaching: Doctrine & Reliability
The Drifter knows the Technomagic Construction 
(35% + 8%) with the Take20 Skill Tag, which 
enables the Drifter to construct Technomagic.

The Drifter begins with three Rote Spells they 
have mastered during their training.
Recovery: Battery Pack

Recovery: Prayer & Contemplation
Each Technomancer has their own hastily 
constructed ÅgBattery PackÅh as the feat of their skill. 
They may store up to 50 MP in it, releasing it all at 
once to recharge themselves.

The Drifter takes time to pray and refocus their 
energy, they double their WIL when they are 
Meditating.

Tulpamancy


New World Bible - Grimoires
A ÅgGrimoireÅh is a term used to describe any 
implement that a Magician uses to keep their 
abilities secret as they attempt to Internalize 
them to use spontaneously. Even the most 
veteran magicians viciously guard their 
Grimoires for risk for their enemies using their 
abilities against them as well as stealing their 
research into different abilities or skills. 

Åú	Druidic Circles - Tattoos or other more 
Physical Implements with Magic.
Åú	Elemental Physics - Functional and Sleek, 
Often insulated against their own focus.
Åú	Fiend Knowledge - Skin Bibles and other 
Grisly Implements.
Åú	School of Occultism - Impossible Objects or 
Bizarre Implements
Åú	Technomancy - Technological Databases
Åú	Theurgy - Religious Textbooks or Manuals
Åú	Tulpamancy - Hidden in their Mental Palace.
Åú	Free Magicians - Anything

 


Description


Psychic-Magician Hybrids arenÅft uncommon, but 
those who are born into it or have functional 
training become Tulpamancers, relying on 
manifestation of their Inland Empire to succeed 
and have trained with it extensively. 


Discrete Teaching: Psychic Magician


The Drifter must be an Awakened Psychic to take 
Tulpamancy - but they may use their MP to use 
Psychic Abilities as well as ESP for Magic.


Recovery: Conquest of Elysium


When a Tulpamancer defeats a Psychic or 
Magician (Knocked Out or Killed) they absorb 2d10 
ESP or MP respectively.



Heat & Burnout
	Magic is not without its risks, often frequent and deadly for those who donÅft know how to 
control their newfound power. Whenever a Magician is using Magic, they generate Heat. Heat 
measures a mixture of their internal body temperature as well as the latent aura around them as they 
start casting. Normally, this will dissipate as soon as the spell ends, but there are some considerations. 

Total Heat
[WIL + Ranks in Magical Occupations] + [Modifiers]

	Whenever a Magician casts magic, they will be generating Strain that will reduce their Magic 
Points. If this Strain is higher than their Total Heat, the Spell fizzles, being simply too powerful for the 
Magician to use successfully. This occurs more among young Magi training their first few techniques. 
However, if a Magician is choosing to Sustain a Spell, they will treat the Total Strain as being their 
current Heat. The more spells the Magician has working at once the more their body is heating up and 
failing to cast more complicated spells. 
	So what is a Burnout?
	Burning Out is the term used to describe Magicians who have expended far more power than 
they naturally are able to, burning their natural Magic Power away to cast spells they normally canÅft. A 
Magician of CL 5 or higher may cast spells over their Total Heat if they make up the difference by 
reducing their Maximum Magic Power  to continue using their magic freely. Reducing their Magic 
Power to 0 this way causes the Magician to completely Burn Out, losing their Magic Power entirely as 
well as their ability to Cast - though they may now take up the Burnout Magic Occupation. 

?
Grimoire
	The MagicianÅfs Grimoire is the collection of all of their Magical Abilities they have amassed over 
their lifetime. Each of these books, objects, or cryptic writings contain the Magicians Spells, Gestures, 
and Glyphs that allow them to filter their magic power through reliably.
	Spells are the foundational aspect of all Magic, the ability to shape oneÅfs Magic Power into 
something tangible. Each Spell is broken down into separate categories representing its nature  as 
well as what Gestures and Glyphs are available. If a Magician does not know a Spell, they cannot 
shape their Magic Power into anything - often seen by a Magician flailing haphazardly for something 
to happen under bad incantations or ritualized abilities.
	If the Spell would be able to do Damage, the Magician may choose it to be either MD or SD. In 
addition, if the Spell has (Defined) next to it, the Spell must dictate what it is doing: Summon Weapon 
(Revolver) is a different Spell than Summon Weapon (Sword)

Spells
Attack
Summon
Protection
Restoration
Mysticism
Ball
Armor
Shield
Heal
Alter
Beam
Entity
Void
Repair
Augmentation
Darts
Object
Wall
Transfer
Control
Fist
Weapon
Ward

Folding 




Illusion
Å@Å@Å@
Å@Å@Å@Gestures allow for a degree of precision in regards to Magic Power. It represents the second 
layer of a Spell, focusing it down or empowering it in different ways to enable the Magician to get 
more out of it. These are also loud and noticeable forcing the Magician to perform movements, 
incantations, or other effects to draw out the necessary changes to the Spell itself. Only one Gesture 
may be applied to a Spell itself, but they may either Consuming (only being able to be applied once) 
or Repeating (able to be applied up to three times). 
Å@Å@Å@Gestures can technically be applied to any Spell, but for purposes of Errant Earth, they are 
restricted to what is being stated here.

Gestures
Attack
Summon
Protection
Restoration
Neutral
Annihilation
Fool's Gold
Affixed
Cura (Medicine)
Flowing
Bloody
Gunsmithing
Projected
Response
Grand
Destructo
Juggernaut
Twisting
Soothing
Trigger
Empowering
Precision


Twin Casting
Agonizing
Reflex Armor


Untaxed
Draining
Smithing


Widening
Å@Å@Å@Glyphs are the final level of precision that a Magician can muster, the final gate in which a Spell 
passes through as it manifests the Spell properly. Each Glyph may only be applied once, but act as a 
method that changes the properties of the Spell itself. These are also the most presentable, being 
whatÅfs seen moments before the Spell is fired off.
Glyphs
Attack
Summon
Protection
Restoration
Neutral
Aeros
Mentat
Animated
Empower
Empath
Accelerated
Blasting
Metallica
Enfeeblement
Giga
Hercules
Backfire
Cryo
Nechronica
Fiend
Standard
Resistance
Bluff
Entropy
Physicallica
Legionaries


Hunger Seed
Forceful
Pyros
Squadica


Inverse Crown
Geos
Rending
Vault


Lighten
Hex
Sonica



Bright
Hydros
Steama



Pull
Lectricus
Target Lock



Push
Luxos
Umbros



Weight
Malicious 





 
Å@Å@Å@Each Magical Ability used by a Magician is a [Spell], augmented by a [Gesture] and a [Glyph] to 
heighten its effects. However, the Magician is restricted to what Spells, Gestures, and Glyphs they 
possess as they are all written in their Grimoire.
Å@Å@Å@The GrimoireÅfs Size indicates how many of each type they may have access to. Multiple 
Grimoires may contain different abilities for each, allowing for creative Magicians to ÅgdrawÅh the right 
Grimoire at the right time - or at least hunt them down to add to their own growing collection. Once a 
Grimoire is full, they can no longer sustain any additional Spells, Gestures, or Glyphs.
This leads to Inscribing & Rote Magic.
	Inscribing Magic is the act of purposefully embedding the Spell, Gesture, or Glyph onto the 
soul of the Magician, turning themselves into a living Grimoire of sorts. When one of these are 
Inscribed, they become a permanent fixture of the Magician's repertoire, able to be drawn out 
regardless of whether or not they have their Grimoire. However, each Magician may only sustain a 
total of [1 + CL/5] Inscriptions at once, meaning that a CL 15 Magician would have access to 
Inscribing four Spells, Gestures, or Glyphs on their person .
Å@Å@Å@Rote Magic has been trained to near perfection by the Magician. Every 3 CL a Magician may 
elect to create a Rote Magic Spell - taking any Spell, Gesture, and Glyph they have available in their 
Grimoire and reducing the Strain Cost by half as long as it is cast the exact same way with no 
alterations to the nature of the Spell. Rote Spells are ÅgLockedÅh for the Magician, but are simple for 
them to cast to let them do so with far less stress on their body. 
 
	The final important note about Grimoires and the construction of magical powers before the 
descriptions of each is the act of Countering Magic. If the Drifter has a Grimoire or has Internalized 
over half of the components of a Spell, then they may attempt to Counter the Spell as a Reaction. The 
Drifter makes an Opposed WIL Attribute Check against the caster. If the Drifter defeats the Caster, 
then they will expend an equal amount of Magic Power to disrupt the casting and cancel it out (still 
forcing the original expenditure). If they fail, they are not fast enough to stop it, but they do not spend 
MP on the Counter attempt.
	Counterspelling is seen as a massive insult to almost every Magician, though the only way that 
someone would know what Spells are being cast would be to continue casting the same magic over 
and over again, or if someone were to have stolen their Grimoire . . .


The Wayward Notes - Identifying Magic
Identifying Magic is not a difficult feat unto itself, whether just detecting traces of Glimmer or perceiving the 
distortion of reality with their own eyes. Identifying the types of Magic being used is more difficult. When a 
Magical Power is cast in the presence of a Magician or someone trained in detecting Magic - they may make a 
Check to see what the Spell is using either their School of Thought Skill or Comprehension Attribute.
The chart below is assuming that the Spell is being used ÅgIn-CombatÅh and moments are all the Drifter has to 
recognize it. If the Drifter is studying someone while relaxed, they all do this with a +20% to their Skill Check, but 
no change for having No Formal Training.


Same School of Thought
Separate School of Thought
No Formal Training
Determine Spell Used
Skill Check (+20%)
Skill Check  (-20%)
COM Attribute Check (-6)
Determine Gesture Used
Skill Check (-20%)
Skill Check (-60%)
COM Attribute Check (-10)
Determine Glyph Used
Skill Check
Skill Check (-40%)
COM Attribute Check (-8)

Alternatively, an accepted way to learn what magic is being cast is to be hit with it. Whether this 
reduces the Drifter to a pile of viscera is part of the learning process. 

Confederate Records - Plot Spells
ItÅfs no secret that ÅgPlot SpellsÅh exist. You know,ÅhI, Alakazam, will summon the Demon Lord Chronirot to this world!Åh followed 
by a dramatic fight to shoot him in the head with a gun. Plot Spells are just that ÅgPlot RelatedÅh and not written down here. 
Same premise exists for them, but is more loose in how they are handled - the ÅgSummon: Demon Lord ChronirotÅh doesnÅft 
need to exist, you just need to steal AlakazamÅfs Grimoire to learn how it actually works (after deciphering it of course!). 
?
Spells

Attack
Strain
Description
Ball
4
The Magician arcs a ball of energy at the Target Space during Field Combat.  Range 2 / 2d8 Damage / Area
Beam
3
The Magician shoots out a raw beam of energy at a target. Requires Combat Check 
Range 4 / 2d6 Damage
Darts
2
The Magician throws a set of energy blasts at Targets with Range 1, they distribute 3d4 Damage Die to individual 
Targets  with separate Attack rolls.
Fist
2
The Magician lashes out with energy directly in front of them.  Requires a Combat Check They deal 1d10 Damage  
at Melee Range.

Summon
Strain
Description
Alter
(Defined)
4
The Magician changes the properties of an object, such as changing its state of matter, increasing its 
buoyancy, or rubberizing it.
Armor
3
The Drifter creates Magical Armor around themselves worth [WIL x 3] MD and an AR of 5. ItÅfs considered to 
be Standard Medium Body Over Armor.
Entity 
(Defined)
6
The Drifter manifests an entity that they have control over - this Entity has two Concepts at [CL] and [CL-
4].
Object 
(Defined)
1
The Drifter creates an Object from their Magic, itÅfs a simplified version of it, but does perform its duty 
adequately.
Weapon  
(Defined)
3
The Drifter manifests a magical Defined Default Weapon.

Protection
Strain
Description
Shield
4
The Drifter creates a defensive shield around themselves, it has a Block Capacity of [WIL x 2] against 
Physical Attacks and does not hinder the DrifterÅfs movements.
Void
3
The Drifter places a number of wards on themselves, increasing their Saves against Magical Effects by 
+3
Wall
3
The Drifter creates a Light Cover in a Space. If Light Cover is already present, it becomes Heavy Cover.
Ward
4
The Drifter creates a defensive shield around themselves, it has a Block Capacity of [WIL x 2] against a 
Magic or One Elemental Attack type and does not hinder movement.

Restoration
Strain
Description
Heal
4
The Drifter places a hand (Range 0) on themselves or an ally to add [Strain + 2d6] Endurance or 
Health to the target.
Repair
3
THe Drifter places a hand (Range 0) on their damaged equipment, adding [Strain + 1d6] Durability 
back to the item. If it is broken, restore it to functional use. 
Transfer
3
The Drifter places a hand (Range 0) on themselves or an ally, they may transfer up to their [WIL] MP 
or ESP to their ally or themselves. 

Mysticism
Strain
Description
Augmentation 
(Defined)
6
The Magician seeks to change the state of being that the Target is in at Range 0. If the Target can 
resist, they make an ANM Save. If they fail, the Magician inflicts the Defined Condition.
Control
8
The  Magician seeks to exert control over an object or person within Range 0. If the target can 
resist, they make an ANM Save. If they fail, the Magician may define one action the target will 
perform.
Folding 
4
The Magician folds space around them, teleporting themselves to a location within [WIL] Feet. May 
sustain for rudimentary flight.
Illusion
1
The Magician creates an illusionary construct, able to fool others if they donÅft make an ANM or 
COM (-4) Save against the Illusion.

 ?
Gestures

Attack
Type
Strain
Description
Annihilation
Consuming
4
The SpellÅfs purpose is simple: if this Spell kills the target, their body is completely 
annihilated, being reduced to atoms by the attack. 
Bloody
Consuming
2
The SpellÅfs particular viscous. If this Spell kills the target, they explode in a rather 
graphic display of gore.
Destructo
Consuming
3
The Spell is considered to be an AT-Weapon. The Spell doubles the damage against 
Vehicle Armor and Hull for Damage.
Empowering
Repeating
5
The Spell increases the number of Damage Die it uses by +1
Agonizing
Repeating
5
The Spell increases the Damage Die size of the attack by one Step.
Draining 
(Defined)
Consuming
3
The Spell no longer deals physical damage, instead it will reduce the TargetÅfs ESP or 
MP instead.
Rupture 
(Suggested by Cole)
Consuming
6
The Spell ignores all traditional Armor and instead directly damages the TargetÅfs 
Endurance / Health - considered to be SD or MD Damage based on Endurance / 
Health.

Summon
Type
Strain
Description
Breath 
(Alter) 
(Suggested by Cole)
Consuming
10
The Altered Object may be turned into a living homunculi powered by magic of 
equal size. 
(Sticks to Snakes, Bones to Birds, Hammers to Haddocks)
Fool's Gold
Consuming
-1
The Summoned Object has the appearance of authenticity, but is secretly 
worthless in actual application.
Gunsmithing 
(Weapon)
Consuming
4
The Summoned Firearm may mimic a Firearm with Two Modifications.
Juggernaut 
(Armor)
Consuming
5
The Summoned Armor is improved and reinforced to be [WIL x 5] MD and 
increase its Armor Rating to 6, but is considered to be Heavy Over Armor.
Precision
Repeating
2
The Summoned Object appears more precise to what is being summoned, incurs 
a -10% / -2 to identify the object as a Summon per application of Precision.
Reflex Armor 
(Armor)
Consuming
5
The Summoned Armor is reduced to only [WIL x 2] MD and loses its Armor Rating, 
but is considered to be Light Armor.
Smithing 
(Weapon)
Consuming
4
The Summoned Melee Weapon may mimic a Melee Weapon with Two 
Modifications.
State Change 
(Alter) 
(Suggested by Cole)
Consuming
5
The Altered Object may be changed into a different state of being. 
(Solid to Gas, Solid to Liquid, Liquid to Gas, etc)
Transmute 
(Alter) 
(Suggested by Cole)
Consuming
3
The Altered Object may change its properties to a similar type (Lead to Gold, 
Silver to Gold, Oak to Maple Wood)

Protection
Type
Strain
Description
Affixed
Consuming
6
The Protection Spell does not need to be Sustained and will last until destroyed 
or it has been targeted by an Effect .
Projected
Consuming
3
The Protection Spell may extend to anyone within a Range of 3.
Twisting
Repeatable
4
The Protection Spell increases its effectiveness by +[WIL] (for Shield and Ward) 
or by +1 (Void)

Restoration
Type
Strain
Description
Cura 
Consuming
6
The DrifterÅfs healing spell creates an idealized place to heal and 
recover - as long as it is sustained, the target of the Restoration 
Spell is considered to be in ideal conditions .
Responding
Repeatable
5
The Drifter increases the number of Dice in their Restoration Spells.
Soothing
Repeatable
5
The Drifter increases the Die Size of their Restoration Spells.

Neutral
Type
Strain
Description
Flowing
Repeatable
3
The Spell increases its Range by +1.
Grand
Consuming
2
The Spell is truly dazzling to behold, and difficult to read, imposing 
a -30% / -6 Penalty to determine what any part of the Spell is.
Trigger
Consuming
2
The Spell is only triggered upon the condition being met that was 
set by the Drifter upon casting. Must still be Sustained.
Twin Casting
Consuming
2nd Spell 
Strain + 1
The Drifter combines the first Spell with a second Spell.
Untaxed
Consumed
-3
The Drifter may cast this Spell with ease, watching it flow easily.
Widening
Repeatable
5
If the Spell is not an Area Spell, make it an Area Spell. If the Spell is 
an Area Spell, may apply to +1 Adjacent Spaces from Origin Point.
?
Glyphs

Attack
Strain
Description
Aeros
3
The Spell is infused with the Element of Air, it now deals Elemental Air Damage
Amrato
(Suggested by Cole)
4
The Spell uses sacred vitae, or blood, as a medium. Lashing out with either their own blood or using the 
blood of their victims as a medium. 
Blasting
10
The Spell lets out an explosive ending once it connects, the Attack is now considered an Explosive 
Attack in addition to its base damage type.
Cryo
5
The Spell now has the properties of Ice - the fusion of Hydros and Geos. It now deals Elemental Ice 
Damage.
Entropy
5
The Spell now has the properties of Dust - a fusion of Aeros and Geos. It now deals Elemental Metal 
Damage.
Forceful
6
The Spell packs a punch, the Target of the attack must make a HRD Save or be knocked down. 
Geos
3
The Spell is infused with the Element of Earth, it now deals Elemental Earth Damage.
Hex
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Hex - a combination of miasma and natural illness. It now 
deals Elemental Hex Damage.
Hydros
3
The Spell is infused with the Element of Water, it now deals Elemental Water Damage.
Lectricus
5
The Spell now has the properties of Electricity - a fusion of Aeros and Pyros. It now deals Elemental 
Electric Damage.
Luxos
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Luxos - a combination of solar energy and blinding light. It now 
deals Elemental Luxos Damage.
Malicious 
6
The Spell delivers such a blow to shake the confidence of the target - they must make an ANM or WIL 
Save. If they fail, they have the Terrified Condition.
Mentat
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Cerebral - a combination of mental energy and overwhelming 
senses. It now deals Psychic Damage. 
Metallica
5
The Spell now has the properties of Metal - a fusion of Pyros and Geos. It now deals Elemental Metal 
Damage.
Nechronica
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Death - drawing upon necromantic energies to empower 
unlife and drain souls. It now deals Death Damage.
Physicallica
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Physical - now relying on raw physical damage to punch 
through armor rather while canceling the magic in it.
Pyros
3
The Spell is infused with the Element of Flame, it now deals Elemental Fire Damage.
Rending
8
The Spell maximizes the potential collateral damage it causes, causing noticeable destructive 
influences on the environment.
Sonica
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Sonic - a combination of acoustics and false noises to damage 
others. It now deals Sonic Damage.
Steama
5
The Spell now has the properties of Steam - a fusion of Hydros and Pyros. It now deals Elemental Metal 
Damage.
Target Lock
8
The Spell has been refocused down to the decisive strike, they gain a +4 to all Combat Checks. 
Umbros
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Darkness - a combination of consuming darkness and void 
energies. It now deals Umbral Damage.
?

Summon
Strain
Description
Animated
10
The Spell allows the Summoned Object to act independently as long as it is within [WIL] Feet of the 
Magician - they must still make Combat Checks though.
Enfeeblement
-5
The Spell forces the Summoned Object to be weaker, lesser quality, or generally worse at doing most 
of everything when summoned. Damage is reduced by one die step, only one Concept may be used, 
Armor value is cut in half.
Fiend
-3
The Spell is infused with fiendish energy, hungering for blood and souls. Usually the Magician who 
summoned it.
Legionaries
15
The Spell tears the Summon apart into [WIL x 10] separate pieces working together, it may be split 
apart to act independently.
Squadica
20
The Spell manifests enough copies for each of the MagicianÅfs Companions, without needing to pay 
additional cost for each.
Vault
25
The Spell is dragged from the Place-Between-Places, or ÅgThe Vault,Åh it is far more alien and obtuse to 
observe, but serves extremely niche purposes.

Protection
Strain
Description
Empower
20
The Spell doubles the value of all Protection Abilities - if used in conjunction with Wall, creates Heavy 
Cover by default.
Giga
20
The Spell now generates Giga Damage Capable defenses, with anything less than the most 
powerful of attacks bouncing off.
Standard
-5
The Spell now generates only Standard Damage Capable defenses, only able to absorb the lightest 
damage possible.

Restoration
Strain
Description
Empath
10
The Spell allows the Magician to treat conditions such as poison and diseases, removing them 
instantly.
Hercules
15
The Spell invigorates the Target, pushing them to greater heights. As long as this Spell is in effect, 
the target has +4 / +20% to all Physical Checks.
Resistance
15
The Spell double checks all of  the protections that the Target has. As long as this Spell is in effect, 
the target has +4 to all Saves.

Neutral
Strain
Description
Accelerated
6
The Spell is cast at such a rapid speed itÅfs impossible to tell where it even came from.
Backfire
-3
When the Spell is cast, it deals 3d6 Endurance Damage  to the casting Magician.
Bluff
-1
This Spell is an elaborate fake-out, allowing the Drifter to make everyone pretend that the spell 
fired off or that another Spell was used instead.
Hunger Seed
-6
The Spell demands a sacrifice, the Magician takes 1d10 Health Damage directly.
Inverse Crown
-9
The Spell causes the Magician to die. Violently.
Lighten
4
The Spell lightens the burden of an item or individual, causing it to lose half its weight.
Bright
3
The Spell is blindly bright, it illuminates the Space it targeted or was used in with a bright light for 
seeing or distractions.
Pull
6
The Spell grips onto the Target and pulls them one Space closer to the Drifter.
Push
6
The Spell shoves the Target violently and pushes them one Space away from the Drifter.
Weight
4
The Spell increases the burden of an item or individual, causing it to increase its weight by 150%.
Hemos
-4
The SpellÅfs Strain does not reduce MP, instead it will reduce the MagicianÅfs Endurance / Health. 


The Wayward Notes - Classic Spells for Wayward Magicians

Fireball [Ball + Empowering 3 + Pyros] = 22 Strain
The Magician hurls a burning orb of fire at a Space at Range 2, dealing 5d8 Fire Damage to any unfortunate 
soul who happens to be caught in the blast. 

Devil Suit [Summon: Armor + Reflex Armor + Fiend] = 5 Strain
The Magician coats themselves in a sickly black armor, pulsating red. ItÅfs Light Armor with [WIL x 2] Durability 
and no movement penalties associated with it.

SchrodingerÅfs Magician [Illusion + Untaxed] = 0 Strain
The Magician coats themselves in an Illusion to simply appear to Ågnot be thereÅh until someone actively begins  
looking for them. This is opposed by an ANM Save or a COM (-4) Save to see the Magician.

Emergency Suit Return  [Repair + Trigger + Pull] = 11 Strain
The Magician places a sigil on the HEV Suit, upon reaching 20 or Less Durability, it will immediately Restore 
[1d6+11] Durability and pull the wearer one Space closer to the Magician.

Final Glory [Ball + Agonizing 3 + Inverse Crown] = 10 Strain
The Magician Detonates themselves, dealing 3d20 Damage to everyone in the same Space and blowing 
themselves up entirely.

Cantrips
	Cantrips are a MagicianÅfs best friend, rather than the sophisticated and rather detailed Spells 
that a Magician may be able to cast - Cantrips are ÅgLittle Magic.Åh This ÅgLittle MagicÅh allows the 
Magician to use their Magic Power to influence the world in small, subtle, ways that push them 
forward. Each Cantrip must be associated with a Signature Focus that the Magician has - whether it is 
from their School of Though or their personal Backgrounds and Occupations. 
Å@Å@Å@As the Magician develops in power, they will be able to develop their personal Cantrips more 
actively - adding more Cantrips based on their School of Thought in addition to developing one every 
3 CL naturally. The Magician does not need to define their Cantrips immediately, instead they instead 
define them when they are being used, but they will ÅgLockÅh them in when they are used. Trained 
Magicians have dozens of Cantrips they have developed over the years and actively seek out more to 
learn for themselves (or at least steal from their rivals). 
Å@Å@Å@Each Cantrip is built around 5 MP - representing the small impact of the Magic itself. The 
Drifters are free to define what their Cantrip is, if needed, consult the Cantrip Chart.

1 MP
2 MP
3 MP
4 MP
5 MP
6 MP
Simple Action
Mundane Action
Augmented Action
Mechanical Action
Supernatural
Exotic
Lift Small Objects
Create a Spark
Read Languages
Produce Light
Produce Element
Change Outfit

+1 MP
+2 MP
+3 MP
DoesnÅft Generate Heat
Impart a Narrative Benefit
Undetectable Magic

-1 MP
-2 MP
-3 MP
Must make a Skill Check
Impart a Narrative Penalty
Reduce HP by 1d3


?

The Wayward Notes - Classic Cantrips

Finger Lighter = 2 Strain (2 Mundane) // Fire, Gaudy
The Magician snaps their finger for a simple lighter, whether to light a fuse, a cigarette, or a party trick.

Convenience Kinesis = 3 Strain (1 Simple + 2 Benefit) // Distortion
The Magician lifts up an object of Light Weight and it will meander towards them. 

Sticky Gloves = 4 Strain (5 Supernatural - 1 Skill Check) // Technology, Interface
The Magician flips a switch and their Technomancer gloves become sticky to the touch, allowing them to 
climb up walls with ease. Requires Attribute or Skill Checks to maintain balance and not fall.

Bird Call = 5 Strain (6 Exotic + 1 No Heat - 2 Narrative Penalty) // Nature
The Magician lets out a whistle that rides the wind, small birds and mammals become relaxed around the 
Magician and sees them as just another animal. Though their voice becomes distorted.

Princess Dress = 3 Strain (4 Mechanical - 1 Skill Check) // Nobility
The Magician claps their hands and makes a Wardrobe Skill Check as their clothes dance towards them to 
help them get dressed. All you need now is talking animals.



 ?
Inland Empire
	The mind is a primal soup in which nothing emerges 
without a hundred thousand filters self-imposed by the 
constraints of the physical body and false ego. The psionic 
dream is to free the mind from the burden of flesh and 
decouple the self from it, an awakened entity that may 
cross the veil.
	A Psychic is an individual blessed, or perhaps cursed, 
with their ability to manipulate their Extra Sensory Power 
to manifest their various psychic abilities - empowering 
themselves, manipulating others, or radiating power 
outward to grant them any edge they can muster.
	When the Drifter increases their Character Level or 
someone attempts an Awakening Ritual on them, they will 
roll 1d100 under their Psychic Potential. If they succeed, they 
open their Psychic Eye and gain their base amount of ESP 
in addition to any bonuses granted to them by their 
Background or Occupation. 

Psychic Potential Chance
Base Value
50%
Awakened Magician
-50%
Teenager (13 - 19)
+20%
Adult (25+)
-20%
Background & Occupation
Variable
Per Character Level
-3%
Per Cybernetic Stress
-12%
Per Rank in Magic Career
-6%
Magic Awakened Companions
-3%
Psychic Awakened Companions
+3%


 Extra Sensory Power
	Extra Sensory Power, or ESP, is an abstraction of the mental strength and ego of a Psychic. The 
more one tries to manipulate the mind and the world around them, the more they twist and curl from 
the inside out. When a Drifter is using their Psychic Powers, they are drawing directly from their ESP to 
resolve the effect. When their ESP is reaching critical levels, the PsychicÅfs mind begins warping and 
tiring out, their body giving up to keep them going. 

Extra Sensory Power (ESP)
[ANM x 2] + [Background / Occupation Bonus / CL]

Å@Å@Å@Whenever the Psychic uses one of their Powers, they will calculate their total Strain to their 
body to use, rending their ESP when itÅfs used. While the Psychic Strain is reliable, it also forces the 
Psychic to constantly push themselves further and further to match their rivals - placing more Strain 
on their already fragile psyche.


	Extra Sensory Power recovers to full after a 
complete rest (8 Hours for Humans). Other methods 
include meditation, rampant drug abuse, or simply 
consuming the Psychic Potential of others.
	Devouring is the process where a Psychic absorbs 
the latent energy of a defeated psychic entity or other 
Psychic. Completely recharging (100% Recovery) 
themselves at the cost of the rather morbid interpretation 
by most. Other methods are more debatable, such as 
keeping living batteries, relying on empaths, or simply 
getting juiced to ward off the voices. 
 
	Psychics donÅft sleep traditionally though, when they 
do ÅgsleepÅh they enter their personal Inland Empire - a 
reflection of their inner psyche. Most are content with 
staying on the edge in the quasi-dreamlike state, others 
venture deeper into their Imperial Domain and retain more 
conscious thought and actions. Though time will slow down 
in this place as they are free to reconstruct their memories, 
talk to their ego forms, or simply meditate easier.

ESP Recovery
Complete Rest (8 Hours)
100%
Incomplete Rest (Less than 8 Hours)
50%
Devouring
100%
Meditation during Downtime
ANM

Imperial Timepiece
Location
Time Dilation 
(Reality / Inland)
The Outskirts 
(Edge the Mind - Dreamscapes)
1 Hour / 5 Minutes
Shoreline 
(Lucid Dreaming - Surface Ideas)
1 Hour / 30 Minutes
Centraline 
(Conscious Thought - Deep Memories)
1 Hour / 1 Hour
Mental Palace 
(Free Thinking - Abstract Memories)
1 Hour / 2 Hour
Mesial Void 
(Reflection of the Void - Seat of their 
Inland Emperor)
1 Hour / 6 Hours

	The Inland Emperor is the self-given name for the [True Ego] that resides at the center of the 
Mesial Void - the core of the PsychicÅfs being. Some actively seek out their Inland Emperor to learn the 
secrets of who they are fundamentally - others rarely venture beyond the Centraline for fear of 
realizing who they actually are.

New World Bible - Inland Empires
Psychics are cagey about describing their 
personal Inland Empire - itÅfs an emotional 
part of their sense of self and revealing 
those intimate details is difficult for 
anyone, psychic or not.
However, Psychics who invade others' 
minds for therapy or violence, fighting 
inside an Inland Empire is the purest 
expression of ÅgFighting in Foreign 
Territories.Åh ItÅfs completely alien to those 
unfamiliar, forcing their own perceptions 
to mold it into something Ågproper.Åh
In simple terms - two psychics enter a 
thirdÅfs mind. All three will see the Inland 
Empire differently. 

?
Heat & Pushing
	Psychic Powers rely on the strength of the user just as much as it does on their willingness to not 
use their powers. Whenever a Psychic is using any of their Psychic Abilities, they generate Heat. Heat is 
the measure of the Psychic's brain physically heating up to compensate for the increased stress of 
their abilities. Normally, Psychics "Vent" their Heat as soon as it's generated, resulting in a thin aura 
around them that mimics their current Glimmer.

Total Heat
[ANM + Ranks in Psychic Occupations] + [Modifiers]

	Whenever a Psychic is using their abilities, they will be generating Strain that will reduce their 
ESP. If this Strain is higher than their Total Heat, their ability flickers and eventually fades without 
accomplishing much due to their natural safety measures preventing them from doing so. If a Psychic 
chooses to Sustain a Power, they will instead treat that Total Strain as being their current Heat. The 
more abilities than the Psychic is maintaining at once, the more their mind and body have to keep up, 
struggling to use even the most basic abilities.
	So how does a Psychic push past their natural limits?
	One of the first steps of being a Psychic is learning the push-and-pull of the energy that lies 
dormant inside of them. Any Psychic at CL 5 or higher may decide to Push their Psychic Abilities to 
their limit, being able to manifest or sustain abilities past their Total Heat - in exchange the Psychic 
must begin hemorrhaging their ESP equal to double the excess Heat . They may choose to Sustain 
any abilities over their Maximum Heat, paying triple the ESP over their Heat Limit at the end of every 
Round or 30 Seconds of real time. 

The Wayward Notes - Boiling Point for Psycho-Magicians 
	Heat is used by both Psychics and Magicians, drawing upon the same principles explained in 
different ways. In the rare moments that a Psychic Magician is born, they will need to share their 
new Heat pool together. 
If a Drifter is both a Psychic and a Magician, their new formula for Heat is [(WIL+ANM)/2+[Ranks in 
Magician Occupations] + [Ranks in Psychic Occupations] + Modifiers. Luckily they are able to support 
more heat overtime, but only those trained in the arts of both can hope to use their MP and ESP 
together. 
?
Mesial Powers
	Deep within the Mesial Void of the Mind does the Inland Emperor sit upon its throne - the 
source of all of the Psychic's power begins and ends with the Inland Emperor and their whims.
	Mesial Powers are the passive effects that a Psychic is naturally born with and develop 
independently of any dedicated skill that the Drifter is partaking in. There are only three Mesial 
Powers, being common enough that all Psychics are assumed to have them in some capacity, sowing 
some distrust when appropriate. 
The Chorus (CL 1)
	When a Psychic is first awoken, the first 
thing they hear are their thoughts, the next is 
someone close to them and their thoughts. 
Psychics naturally can hear the surface thoughts 
of those around them, more concerned about the 
immediate moments in front of them or the 
lingering doubts that seem to haunt them. In 
densely packed urban environments, a thousand 
cacophonous voices are telling simultaneously 
directly into the mind of the Psychic at all times. 
	It takes years of training to fully shut out 
the voices, though it does become background 
noise after some time. 
	A Psychic may choose to focus on a 
particular person if the group is ten or less, the 
target does not have a Cybernetic Stress of 5+, is 
not a robot, is not a magician, or possess Psychic 
Resistance. If they do such, their inner voice is 
more clear and can be heard - this is how many 
psychic communities tend to talk with one 
another rather than verbal sparring. 

Telepathic (CL 3)
	The PsychicÅfs Chorus has matured to the 
point that it allows them to communicate with 
other Psychics silently through telepathy at a 
distance of roughly 30 Feet. 
	At CL 5, the PsychicÅfs Range increases to 
60 Feet and they may ÅgLinkÅh with others via the 
Trojan Horse to speak to them with Telepathy 
even if they are not Psychics.
The Trojan Horse (CL 5)
	If a Psychic were to place their bare skin 
against another individual, their mind opens up 
before them. During this brief trance  state, the 
Psychic is free to wander the mind of their victim, 
their personal Inland Fiefdom, as long as they 
stay connected.
	If the Psychic attempts this on someone 
with Psychic Resistance, they must make an 
opposed ANM vs WIL Save to "break into" the 
entity's mind. If this is done with another Psychic, 
feedback occurs and both feel a shock through 
their system. Some find this extremely stimulating 
in all of the wrong ways. 

Murmurs (CL 10)
	As the Psychic grows in strength, so does 
the Murmering. The Inland Emperor tends to 
make their voice known at inopportune times or 
at critical junctures, act less like a moral guide 
and more as an accelerant to any action done by 
the Psychic.
	By the time the Murmering begins in 
honesty, is it often too late. The Inland Emperor's 
voice can be heard when they sleep, when they 
close their eyes, and any moment they are not 
perfectly diligent they will often end up in a 
dialogue with their inner self demanding action, 
sustenance, or other ego-driven things. 
	Some embrace it. Some reject it. Others 
hang themselves after it gets too loud. 


?
Resonant Powers
	A Psychic's Resonant Powers are built from a set of different foundations, each relating to how 
the Psychic chooses to approach situations and seek a harmonious discord with them in some way.
	Depending on the Background and Occupation of the Drifter, they will begin with a number of 
Resonant Powers they will open up as they would any other Skill. Each Resonant Power is, for all intents 
and purposes, a Skill that the Drifter may use, performing regular Skill Checks to determine the quality 
of the power itself.

Resonant Powers
Description
Base Skill Value
Development
Aeon Sage
The Psychic offloads their mental tax 
onto others around them.
If Successful, the Drifter may ÅgStealÅh a Skill 
or Concept from another for 1 Scene.
23
+2%
Astra Eye
The Psychic throws their vision to a 
distant place, scrying around them.
If Successful, the Drifter may view an 
area within [ANM / 2] Miles of them. 
31
+4%
Astral Form
The Psychic decouples their astral 
form from their body, walking the 
chain.
If Successful, the Drifter astrally projects 
as a psychic ghost for up to [ANM * 2] 
Minutes
33
+6%
Thoughtforms
The Psychic needs some better 
opinions, they talk to themself. 
If Successful, the Drifter opens up a 
dialogue with one of their Skills to chat for 
ANM Minutes.
19
+2%
Psychotherapy
The Psychic mentally connects with 
another individual, taking on their 
worries for themselves.
If Successful, the Drifter remotely views 
another person's thoughts and shares in 
their emotional turmoil empathetically.
43
+4%
Parasite
The Psychic slithers into the recesses 
of others minds, plucking what they 
need from them.
If Successful, the Drifter may ask a 
question to the Chorus in which they will 
receive answers for what they know.
31
+4%
Precognition
The Psychic glimpses the future, is it 
doomed?
If Successful, if the Drifter were to fail a 
Check in the next 24-Hours, they may 
instead choose to Succeed.
11
+4%
Imperial Voice
The Psychic Commands, the Mind 
Listens.
If Successful, the Drifter forcefully takes 
control of an individual, forcing them to 
perform one action of their choice.
7
+2%
Telekinesis
The Psychic uses their mental ability 
to lift, manipulate, or interact with 
the world around them.
If Successful, the Drifter may lift, move, or 
interact with objects that are Light or less 
in Weight.
41
+4%

Resonant Power Bonuses and Penalties
Aeon Sage
Increase # of Scenes +1
-10%
Hyper Niche Skill 
+10%


Astra Eye
[ANM] Miles Radius
-20%
[ANM] Feet Radius
+20%
Still Frame Photo
+20%
Astral Form
[ANM] * 10 Seconds
+20%
[ANM] Hours
-20%
Body Still Active
-50%
Thoughtforms
Two Thoughtforms
-20%
Three Thoughtforms
-40%
Grand Council, All Skills
-60%
Psychotherapy
Manipulate Emotion
-20%
Replace Memories
-40%
Intensify Emotion
-10%
Parasite
Ask More Questions
-5%
Remain Hidden
-20%
Reveal Psychic Influence
+10%
Precognition
Additional Success
-100%
Enter Coma for 1d3 Days
+20%


Imperial Voice
Additional Order
-25%
Order Self-Harm
-50%
Order Deliberate Harm
-25%
Telekinesis
Lift Heavy Weight
-25%
Lift Push Weight
-50%
Lift Sub-10 Lbs.
+20%
	Resonant Powers obey the same limitations as Skill Checks with a consistent growth rate until 
they reach 100% in which they will drop to 0% Development. The Drifter will need to either manually 
improve their Powers through training or rely on the teachings of masters to impart their wisdom for a 
price.
	Whenever a Resonant Power is used against someone, they may have a chance to resist it with 
a WIL Save. Whenever the Psychic is using their Resonant Power against someone who is aware of 
them using their Psychic Powers, an Awakened Psychic, Awakened Magician, or has latent Magical or 
Psychic Resistance may attempt a save automatically. If someone is not capable of any of those, then 
they have no manual defense against the power being used against them and may not even realize it 
was used against them.
 

Resonant Powers
Base Strain
Aeon Sage
4
Astra Eye
3
Astral Form
5
Thoughtforms
3
Psychotherapy
2
Parasite
1
Precognition
7
Imperial Voice
10
Telekinesis
5

	Whenever the Psychic is using a Resonant Power, they will first 
pay the Base Strain Cost of the Resonant Power and then make their 
Skill Check. If the Check is successful, the Psychic will take the 1's place 
of the Die Roll (a 32 would be [2]) and add it to the cost for the total 
ESP spent on the abilities.
	Psychics can fluctuate wildly in their expense of ESP, relying on 
their own emotions in addition to their skill to carry them. If a Psychic 
were to spend ESP they do not have, they instead will pay with 
[Difference x 3] Endurance or Health.
	The first doctrine imparted on many Psychics is simple: It's a gift 
that will kill you if they let it. 


The Wayward Notes - Explaining This Entire System 
(Less) Elegantly
	Tidus has found himself in a tricky situation when a 
Coalition Patrol Officer wants to search his bag for contraband, 
which he most certainly has. In a desperate ploy, he gambles 
on them not knowing Psychic Abilities and opts to make an 
[Imperial Voice] Skill Check to convince the Guard to let him 
pass. HeÅfs put some time and effort into it, so itÅfs 36% - not 
great, but itÅfs what he has. He makes the Check against the 
Officer, who is not a Psychic, Magician, or knows whatÅfs going 
on.
	Tidus rolls and scores a 23! Success! 
	ÅgLet me pass already.Åh 
	The order is direct and simple, the Guard flinches as he 
reaches for the bag. Standing straight and walking away with 
a dull look in his eyes. 
 
	Tidus uses the [Imperial Voice] Ability, with a base ESP 
Cost of 10 - his 23 means he adds a +3 to the total cost. In total 
Tidus used 13 ESP to force the Guard away, not bad, but heÅfll 
regain his wits soon enough and wonder where that kid went. . .
?


Charge Powers
	When people traditionally think about Psychic, they either drift toward the abuse of their 
Resonant Powers or awe-inspiring strength of their Charge Powers. Charge Powers are the most 
direct application of the Psychic's ability to manifest their ESP. Whether they are using their power to 
directly harm others or protect themselves, the distortion of space and twinkle in the aether is enough 
to know that one is being used.
	Rather than straining their mind as with Resonant Powers, Charge Powers rely on the Psychic 
pushing out and expelling a set amount of their ESP to accomplish a preset goal. The appearance and 
nature of these powers are variable, but will inevitably alert any other Psychic to what's going on. Of 
course, Psychics are tricky when they need to be. When the field is even, every gambit has its place. 
 
	When a Psychic acquires a Charge Power they will open it up at its base level, or First Order. As 
the Psychic develops in power and begins to hone their abilities further, the Psychic may take 
additional Charge Powers or increase the Order of their Charge Powers by adding additional tricks, 
quirks, or empowering them directly. Each Psychic may only reach the Sixth Order in any of their 
Charge Powers, adding any more causing too much mental stress to manifest properly. Each Order 
will increase the base ESP Cost of the Charge Power, a Psychic may be able to Ågturn offÅh different 
Orders, but it will close off all abilities Ågabove itÅh as well . 
	If the Psychic wishes to "reset" themselves - they will need to undergo a complete mind cleanse, 
slipping into a 1d6 Day Coma as their mind mentally restructures itself. This allows the Psychic to 
redistribute any of their Orders among any of their Charge Powers. Each time this is done, add an 
additional +1d6 Days to their Coma as their mind slips deeper into the Mesial Void.
?

Armaments
5 ESP
 
The Psychic manifests a weapon from their subconscious, a personal reflection of 
their Inland Emperor in weaponized form. 

The Psychic defines a Default Melee Weapon, for an Action they may manifest their 
weapon in their hand and treat it as if they are wielding that weapon. 

	
Shifting Form
+2
Apply Tag (R)
+1
Honed Edge (R)
+2
The PsychicÅfs defined Weapon may 
manifest as a second kind of Default 
Weapon.
The Psychic defined Weapon adds a 
Tag of their choice to the weapon.
The Psychic increases the Damage Die 
of their Weapon

Shining Armory
+4
Flying
+6
Animated
+4
The PsychicÅfs Weapon may be 
empowered with their ESP, increasing 
damage by the amount of ESP spent 
per Attack.
The PsychicÅfs Weapon jumps from their 
hand, moving unconsciously on its own. 
It is considered to have Range 1. 
Requires Flying
The PsychicÅfs Weapon is alive! While 
manifested the weapon will talk, 
interact, and have Range 2 as they are 
free to move.
		
 
Blast
2 ESP

The Psychic aims and fires a concentrated blast of energy at the target.

The Psychic may make a Ranged Combat Check with a [2d8 MD or SD / Range 2] 
Weapon that deals Psychic Damage.
	
Apply Tag (R)
+1
Booster Gold
+2
Booster Blue
+4
The Psychic applies a Tag of their 
Choice to the Blast.
The Psychic increases the die size of 
their Blast by one step. This may only 
go up to D12.
The Psychic adds +1d Damage Die to 
their Blast

Sniper (R)
+3
Committed
-1
Elemetas
+2
The Psychic increases the Range of the 
Blast by +1.
The Psychic makes their Blast only do 
Mega or Standard Damage
The Psychic may choose a True or False 
Element to apply the Damage Type.
	?
	
Barrier
4 ESP
 
The Psychic effects a barrier around them to protect them from fire, manifesting as 
armor, cloaks of stars, or any other vestment. 

The Psychic coats themselves in Mega Damage Armor equal to [ANM x 2]. Must be 
Sustained.

	
Layered Barrier (R)
+3
Hardening (R)
+1
Reactive Spark
+6
The Psychic begins rapidly layering 
shields, increasing the ANM Multiplier by 
+1.
The Psychic adds an AR Value starting 
at 5. May take this again to increase the 
AR value by +1. 
The Psychic may use their Barrier as a 
Reaction. 
				
Protection
+5
Silent Barrier
+2
Mute Barrier
-3
The Psychic chooses a True or False 
Element, they have [Resistance] as long 
as the Barrier is up.
The PsychicÅfs Barrier radiates no energy 
or signal, making it remarkably quiet.
The PsychicÅfs Barrier is considered 
Standard Damage instead of Mega 
Damage.

 
Psi-Shield
3 ESP

The Psychic manifests a shield or other protective implement, ready to parry or 
protect others around them.

The Psychic manifests a shield with Mega Damage Block Capacity equal to [ANM x 
3]. Must be Sustained. If the Block Capacity would break the shield, it must be 
remanifested as it breaks alongside all effects. 
	
Layered Shielding (R)
+3
Buckler
-2
Tower Shield
+4
The Psychic begins rapidly layering 
shields, increasing the ANM Multiplier by 
+1.
The Psychic reduces their Mega 
Damage Block Capacity to ANM * 1. 
The PsychicÅfs shield is so massive it 
covers others, as long as the Psychic is 
in a Space, allies have Light Cover.
				
Thrown Cover (R)
+3
Guardian Angel
+3
Mute Barrier
-3
The Psychic manifests simplistic psychic 
constructs to assist their allies in a 
Space. Instead of the intended effect, 
the Psychic now manifests Light Cover 
in a Space. May be retaken twice to 
increase it to Heavy and then Complete 
Cover.
The PsychicÅfs Shield may be applied to 
any ally within the same Space. Either 
the Psychic or the Ally may use the 
Block Reaction of their own . 
The PsychicÅfs Barrier is considered 
Standard Damage instead of Mega 
Damage.
	?

Vitalis
3 ESP
 
The Psychic reinforces their body with the intent of maximizing their assets or 
abilities, flushing their body with ESP.

The Psychic uses ESP to increase their physical powers. Each Vitalis use increases 
one Attribute by +3 and is considered Supernatural. 

	
PUMPED UP
+2
RUSH IT
+2
BRAIN BLAST
+2
The Psychic may only increase Power or 
Hardiness, but the bonus is now +5.
The Psychic may only increase their 
Finesse or Speed, but the bonus is now 
+5.
The Psychic may only increase their 
Comprehension or Bravado, but the 
bonus is now +5.
				
Hulking Out
+7
Only Human
-2
As long as the Psychic is sustaining 
Vitalis, they are one size Larger.
The Attribute Potential is reduced to 
Mortal.

 
Restoration
1 ESP

The Psychic binds their wounds, mends their mind, and readies themselves for the 
next battle.

The Psychic uses ESP to heal their own Health or Endurance by +1. May Sustain for 
continued healing a tick over 1 Minute . Removed if damage is taken. 
	
Recovery (R)
+1
Lay on Hands
+5
DoctorÅfs Guidance
+4
The Psychic heals their Health or 
Endurance by an additional +1
The Psychic may touch a target within 
the same Space to use their Restoration 
on them.
The Psychic is considered to be in a 
Medical Setting when sustaining 
Restoration. 
				
Death Gaze
+24
MartyrÅfs Cross
-2
Empathetic Link
+3
The PsychicÅfs Restoration kicks in as 
they are on the brink of death. If they 
were to die with the body intact, it 
kickstarts the heart raising them to 1 HP. 
The Psychic may not use their 
Restoration on themselves.
Requires Lay on Hands 
The Psychic mentally connects to an 
Ally in the same Space. When the Ally 
takes Endurance or Health Damage, 
the Psychic does instead - they are 
considered Touching. 

Sewing Scars
+9
Alabaster Blood Cell
+2
Gearhead
+9
Requires Lay on Hands
The Psychic performs a delicate 
Psychosurgery on the Target. After the 
1d6+2 Hour procedure is done, the 
target may remove a Scar. 
The Psychic cleanse themselves of 
Poisons, Diseases, and Toxins from their 
body.
The Psychic may press their hands 
against equipment or armor and begin 
the Restoration process on them. 
Restoration no longer heals Endurance 
or Health. 

Latent Powers
	Deep within every Psychic lies their Inland Empire, a bastion of who they are on a physical, 
metaphysical, and transcendental basis. With their powers emanating from the Mesial Void and their 
Inland Emperor, it's no surprise there are one-of-a-kind powers that manifest.
	Latent Powers bubble up from the Mesial Void, demonstrating a power tied fundamentally to 
the abilities of the Psychic.  Whenever the Psychic reaches a point in Power, the Psychic will gain a 
unique Skill Tag called [Latent].
	When the [Latent] Skill Tag is added to a Skill, the Psychic has developed Psychic Powers 
relating to that Skill. By all intents and purposes, the Skill is now considered a Psychic Skill for purposes 
of advancement or abilities. This manifests as the Skill growing increasingly psychic dependent and 
allowing for supernatural phenomenon to manifest.
	To determine the base cost of their new Psychic Power, consult this chart.

1 ESP
2 ESP
3 ESP
4 ESP
5 ESP
6 ESP
Simple Action
Mundane Action
Augmented Action
Mechanical Action
Supernatural
Exotic
Piloting: Any
Banter
Monster Slayer
Armory
Forgary
Radio
Mentally turn on and 
off a switch or starter 
of a Vehicle.
Compel simple 
answers for short 
questions.
The Psychic mentally 
connects and tracks 
a local monster.
With a minute to 
focus, disassemble 
and reassemble a 
weapon.
The Psychic Produces 
a fake ID Card
Tune into the Astral 
Plane, a half-place 
Psychics can go to in 
their dreams. 

Confederate Records - Latent Powers and You!
	For a person so remarkably opposed to the concept of begging my GM for anything, adding 
one of these seems like a bold choice. But the truth is that Psychic Powers are fairly rigid as is with 
slower, more deliberate customization, Latent Powers let the Psychic have a bit more of that 
ÅgWhimsyÅh when needed before and after their powers start manifesting.
	Also [Latent][Trade:Mime] will open a million entertaining and horrid situations. 

?
Adventure on Errant Earth
	The Errant Earth is filled with a number of terrible hazards and diabolical plans that the Drifters 
will inevitably fall into. During their adventure, the Drifters will be getting into gun fights and debates 
simply enough, but more adventurous Drifters may find themselves far outside the comforts of 
civilization or at the heart of its rotting inside.

Travel
	When the Drifters are attempting to reach a location farther than a quick jaunt away, they'll be 
travelling. With the breakdown of infrastructure in America and beyond, the people of the Errant Earth 
have taken to carving their own roads out of the world toward major settlements and resources.
	Not to imply that connection is widespread, a road today is a bandit toll booth the next. Roads 
are for those who have the privilege to protect them, to keep them "safe enough" from the 
roughriders or enemies in the woods. For now at least.
 
	Whenever the Drifters are going to travel to a new location, they will need to choose how they 
are going to get there, how long it'll take, packing enough supplies, and then ride into the sunset, or 
perhaps walk slowly with fifty-pounds of supplies on their back.
	When the Drifters know where they want to go they'll first need to determine the distance 
between the two points. This is measured in American Miles, or the Mile. After determining the 
location, the Drifters will need to choose how they are going to reach their destination. This is done by 
choosing the Road, Path, Hazard, or Wayfinding. 
	Roads are reliable and are maintained by the local governments in the area. The Great Lakes 
Confederacy has a road going from Stony Point to Chigeon, Buffalo Falls, and Bay Town with Chigeon 
having another road riding through Milwaukee and Green Bay. However, with the conflict hitting a 
boiling point the roads are also a reliable place to find some suckers and be spotted before the 
Drifters know they are being looked at. 
	Paths are the unofficial roads, the backways that towns and isolated homesteads use to mark 
the way. Being in the "know" is half the battle when finding paths and cutting a deal with a local for the 
"secret path" may be ideal. Or lead into disaster in the middle of nowhere. 
	Finally there are Hazardous Areas and Wayfinding. Hazard Areas are pock marked in 
extreme danger or in the midst of a cataclysmic event. It's difficult to navigate without proper 
assistance and even more impressive to get out with their limbs attached. Though Wayfinding is 
arguably the most dangerous, striking off into the great unknown may be able to hide their trail and 
not alert any suspecting enemies, but being in the middle of nowhere with nothing but a navigator's 
keen eye and memory is something few wish to experience. 
?


Healthy Party
Injured Party
Forced March
Roads
20 Miles / Day
15 Miles / Day
30 Miles / Day
Paths
16  Miles / Day
12 Miles / Day
24 Miles / Day
Hazardous
2 Miles / Day
1 Mile / Day
3 Miles / Day
Wayfinding
10 Miles / Day
7.5 Miles / Day
15 Miles / Day


Quick Mounts
Draft Animals
Caravan Animals
Roads
40 Miles / Day
25 Miles / Day
5 Miles / Day
Paths
32 Miles / Day
20 Miles / Day
4 Miles / Day
Hazardous
4 Miles / Day
2.5 Miles / Day
?  Mile / Day
Wayfinding
20 Miles / Day
12.5 Miles / Day
2.5 Miles / Day


Light Vehicles
Medium Vehicles
Heavy Vehicles
Roads
90 Miles / Day
45 Miles / Day
15 Miles / Day
Paths
45 Miles / Day
22.5 Miles / Day
7.5 Miles / Day
Hazardous
0 Miles / Day
0 Miles / Day
0 Miles / Day
Wayfinding
15 Miles / Day
11.5 Miles / Day
2.5 Miles / Day

 ?
Travel Challenges
	The brave walks across the Errant Earth in spades, but only a few of 
the wise tend to find their burial markers. Travel Challenges are small 
encounters that the Drifters find on their journey, hurrying them along or 
slowing them down based on the whims of fate. 
	Everyday that the Drifters are travelling, they will roll 2d10 to determine 
if they had a Travel Challenge or Encounter that day. If the result has two of 
the same number, or ÅgDubs,Åh they have a Random Encounter in addition to 
their Travel Challenge. 

Travel Challenge
Travelling on . . .
2d10
Roads
15+
Paths
10+
Hazardous
8+
Wayfinding
6+


Travel Challenge (2d10)
2d10
2 - 4
5 - 9
10 - 12
13 - 17
18-20
Attribute or Skill
ATB
Skill
ATB
Skill
ATB
Difficulty
-6 / -30%
-3 / -15%
0
+3 / +15%
+6 / +30%
Consequence
Endurance Damage
Durability Damage
Lost Time
Durability Damage
Endurance Damage

Endurance Damage
The Drifter suffers a complication and takes damage to their Endurance. They take a 
total of 2d10 Damage.

Durability Damage
The DrifterÅfs armor or gear takes serious damage, taking a total of 2d10 Damage to their 
Armor or Vehicle.

Lost Time
The Drifter has set back the group, losing a total of 1d6 Miles from the groupÅfs entire 
progress. If multiple Drifters fail the Travel Challenge, this effect is cumulative and may 
lose the entire dayÅfs distance, but negative distance cannot occur.
 

Roadway Encounters
D12
A People . . 
Are Currently . . .
However . . .
1
Soldiers
Horribly Lost
Something is Amiss
2
Bandits
Looking for Prey
Clearly Going Wrong
3
Merchants
Hiding from Something
Deception is Afoot
4
Peasants
In Need of Help
Another Party Observes
5
Beasts
In Disguise
Supernatural Happenstance
6
Travellers
Helping another Group
Fabulous Treasure
7
Foreign Exos
Attacking another Group
Dignitaries of a Group
8
Monsters
Negotiating with a Group
A Friendly Face
9
Pilgrims
Bonepicking the Dead
Pulling a Prank
10
Robots
Celebrating a Victory
Mistaken Identity
11
Nobility
Resting for a Spell
Diseased
12
Splurgoth Slave Carrier
ÅgOfficial BusinessÅh
Weird Clothing & Symbols

Pathway Encounters
D12
Something on the Way
Mystery
However . . .
1
A Hidden Cave
A Weird Letter
ItÅfs a Ruse
2
A Dead Body
Jewels & Trinkets
ItÅfs for Someone Else
3
A Faction Dignitary
Signs of a Magical Battle
Never Meant to Be Seen
4
A Band of Soldiers
Empty Wagons
ITÅfS A TRAP!
5
A Group of Thieves
Corpses Everywhere
Malicious Forces
6
Abandoned Vehicle
Hostile Anomaly
Awful Smell
7
Lumbering Creature
Bounty Notes
Strange Sounds
8
Wicked Monster
Laser Marks and Spent Casings
The Lingering Curse
9
Impromptu Toll Booth
Confused Traveller
Supernatural Distortion
10
Splurgoth Slave Carrier
DIstorted Reality
Supplies a plenty, too plenty
11
Exo Creature
Cursed Object
Distorted Place
12
Deranged Individual
Burning Pyre
Strangely Peaceful

Wayfinding Encounters
D12
Off the Beaten Track
A Sign of Interest
But of Course . . .
1
Scenic View
Makeshift Shrine
There are Enemies
2
A Refugee Village
Loose Supplies
Psychic Powers Resonate Here
3
Mutant Freaks
Hidden Stash
Stalking Creature
4
Old Battleground
An Old Grimoire
Hunting Grounds
5
Farm
A Bag of Valuables
Sacred Territory
6
A Quiet Homestead
Field of Rare Flowers
Being Observed
7
Old Broken Down Vehicle
Broken Weapon
Traps and Tricks
8
Old Grave Markers
Half-Destroyed Armor
Cultists
9
Tribal Scouting Party
Half-Carved Game
Mad Animals
10
Military Detachment
A Mangled Body
Splurgoth Slave Carrier
11
Recently Used Campsite
Victim of Circumstance
Thick with Miasma
12
Poorly Armed Thugs
Directions to Somewhere
Demons
?

Hazardous Encounters
D12
The Environment is . . .
And itÅfs currently . . .
We need to . . .
1
Thick with Miasma
Being Patrolled
Navigate Around It
2
Filled with Radiation
Splurgoth Slave Carrier
Push Through It
3
CURRENTLY ON FIRE
Being Investigated
Carefully Navigate
4
Supernatural Phenomenon
Being used for an Ambush
Rush as Fast as Possible
5
Filled with Exos
The site of a battle
Get a Vehicle Here
6
An Earthblood Wound
Home to a Monster
Go Around, ItÅfs Suicide!
7
Alive
Filled with Loot!
Avoid WhateverÅfs Here
8
Quiet, Too Quiet
A Graveyard to Failures
Follow a Marked Path
9
Signposted with Dangers
A Calming Sight
Follow the right Path
10
Also a Minefield
Being Observed
Not Get Lost in the Maze
11
Filled with Anomalies
Being used as hunting grounds
Complete the Puzzle
12
Strangely Docile
A Dumping Ground
Fight Out of Here

The Wayward Notes - ATB vs Skill Travel Challenges
	Rolling for a random Travel Challenge has the GM determine if it is an ATB or Skill Challenge. 
ATB Travel Challenges are brute forcing the situation as hard as possible, with 8 Attributes it's also 
easy to roll a 1d8 to determine the relevant Attribute to be tested in that situation. Skill Challenges 
are a bit more haphazard, due to the breadth of available Skills for the Drifters to rely on. 
	When a Skill Travel Challenge occurs, the GM will need to have a rough idea what the 
situation is and how to bypass it. The safest option is relying on Wilderness Skills to carry the day, 
though the GM may always roll on the following chart to determine what the scenario is to present 
to the Drifters.

D8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
ATB
ANM
BRV
COM
FIN
HRD
POW
SPD
WIL
Situation
People
Monster
Magic
Psychic
Roguery
Domestic
Tech
Science

?
Demeanor
	No one is an island, the Drifter will encounter a number of people on their adventures, from 
close allies, scheming tyrants, and the occasional bystander willing to help or talk it out. The Drifter will 
be naturally measuring their relationship with people and situations through their Demeanor.
	Demeanor is the measure of how receptive others are toward the Drifter and what they have 
to say to them. Each Drifter is different and the initial impressions some leave can have a lasting 
impact on people's perception of them. Not to say everyone is going to be immediately friendly 
towards a Drifter with good looks and smooth voice, though it does help.
	Base Demeanor shows how receptive a person is toward the Drifter. A Demeanor of 10 to 12 
may indicate being neutral to a bit friendly, while a Demeanor of 19 may indicate obsession with the 
Character to the point of being unhealthy. But, having a Demeanor of 4 with someone may indicate a 
simmering hatred that can't be quelled easily. 

Influence Checks
	What does Demeanor do though? Demeanor grants a Modifier for the Drifter when using their 
Attributes or Skills to manipulate, persuade, or convince someone to do something. This is called an 
Influence Check.
	Influence Checks have the Drifter make an Attribute or Skill Check against the target in an 
effort to convince them to do something. The more absurd or outlandish the request, the more difficult 
it becomes. 

Request 
Sample
Safe & 
Simple
Appeal to 
Alignment
Appeal to
Goals
Standard
Opposed to 
Goals
Opposed to 
Alignment
Dangerous
Request
Modifier
+30% / +6
+20% / +4
+10% / +2
0 / 0
-10% / -2
-20% / -4
-30% / -6

	Influencing using Attributes is trying to overwhelm the opponent through sheer force of 
character or actions, prompting the target to make a Willpower Save to oppose it. However, the limits 
of these Influence Checks are simple and direct - "I want to get into the bar" is a simple enough 
request and a charismatic person may be able to bat their eyelashes and walk in unimpeded. 
Alternatively, using a Skill Check is more focused and allows the Drifter to make more nuanced and 
complicated requests, using a combination of smooth talkings, schmoozing, and presentation to get 
the results needed. "I want to get into the bar while hiding a holdout pistol in my belt" would prompt 
the Drifter to make the proper Skill Check to navigate out of this situation. If a Skill Check succeeds, 
often there iss no need to make a Willpower Save unless it is something extremely suspicious or 
dangerous.





Changing Demeanor
Å@Å@Å@Demeanor shifts and changes the more someone interacts with another person. Most of the 
time the various characters and creatures being influenced are in the background and may only come 
up again later, but others may be Side Characters in their own right.
	The Drifter may write down a number of Contacts as specified in their Demeanor and actively 
shape their perception of the Drifter and their issues. Some of these "slots" may be filled in before the 
Drifter even begins their adventure, others may be written in as the Drifter wanders.
	If the Drifter  works with, assists, or actively helps a Contact they will increase their Demeanor 
by +1 at the end of the Session. This indicates that they have become more receptive and friendly with 
the Character, working together to help one another. On the other hand, if the Character is asking 
huge favors or making intimidating demands, their Demeanor may lower by -1 / -2 / -4 depending on 
the severity. 
	It's far harder to build a relationship than it is to destroy one.

Being Influenced
	The Drifter isn't the only one with the ability to influence others, any Character with the 
appropriate skills and abilities may also attempt to influence the Drifter to perform actions or compel 
them into a situation.
	The Drifter being ÅginfluencedÅh by others is an easy way to develop the Contact. Taking time off 
to go work a side gig, a dangerous request, or running simple errands may go a long way for them.
	However, if the Drifter wants to resist this Influence they will be making a Willpower Save with a 
penalty equal to the Demeanor of the requestor. Should they fail they'll be forced to go along with the 
request or suffer catastrophic Demeanor loss . Success means they ward off helping them (for now) 
though it won't improve their relationship at all. 

?
Horror Factor
Å@Å@Å@The world is filled with terrifying things, brain eating slugs, face melting hazards, horrible brain 
frying psychics, and the occasional dimensional freak of nature that vibrates in and out of our reality. 
Situations and individuals may have a Horror Factor to measure how horrible and frightening 
something is.
	Horror Factor is measured from 0 to a negative value. Most entities in the world do not have a 
Horror Factor, even possessing a 0 instills a certain uneasiness in others. When the Drifters encounter 
someone with a Horror Factor, they will make an Anima or Willpower Save and apply their Horror 
Factor as a penalty to their Check.
	Anima based Horror Factor is physical and immediate, a revulsion that causes others to recoil in 
fear. Willpower based Horror Factor is emotional or cerebral, relying more on the implication of "What 
if" than anything immediate. In short, Anima is used for watching a friend be vaporized by a creature, 
Willpower for realizing the creature is terrifying to begin with.
	Succeeding at a Horror Factor Save has the Drifter harden their resolve, nothing occurs and 
they take no immediate penalty to the situation. If they are confronted with a different variant of the 
Horror Factor (Anima or Willpower) they will need to make the Save again. Failing the Horror Factor 
Save has the Drifter flinch, taking a penalty to all actions equal to the Horror Factor for the remainder 
of the scene or until the creature is defeated.
	If Horror Factor is 0, then no penalties are given, but the revulsion and recoil is immediately felt 
and may be acted upon by an opposing force.

Situation
Disfigured 
Mutant Freak
Psychic 
Cannibal
Ally Caught in 
Brain Twister
Catastrophic 
Loss of Life
Demonic 
Legionnaire
Splurgoth 
Slaver
Horror Factor
0
-1
-2
-3
-4
-5


Companions & Mounts
	During their travels, the Drifters may encounter others who are willing to help them and even 
tag along to offer their skills and talents. Companions are the catch-all term for those brave souls 
willing to accompany the Drifters into the thick of things.
	The requisite for being a Companion is "Free Will" which is the ability for them to reject the 
Drifters or simply run away when they get scared enough.
	Companions have one to three Concepts which measure their relevant abilities and skills in a 
condensed fashion. A Companion may be a "Coalition Soldier 15" meaning that whenever a Check is 
called in which it is relevant, they will use their [Coalition Soldier] Concept as either their Attribute or 
Skill (multiplying their Concept by 5).
	Each Companion will have Endurance equal to their highest Concept and Health equal to half 
of that in addition to any armor and weapons they may carry. Finally, each Companion will have 
Loyalty measured from 0 to 20. Whenever the Companion is ordered to do something dangerous, 
risky, or outside of their expertise, they will make a Loyalty Check by rolling a D20 under their Loyalty. 
	If it is successful, the Companion will attempt the task or at least provide what assistance they 
can.  If they fail this Check, if their Loyalty is above 0, they will lose 1d6 Loyalty and may refuse the 
request outright. If they had 0 or would reduce them to 0, they will leave the group at their earliest 
convenience.
	A unique type of companion is a Mount, rather than being a thinking person with a life to live 
and problems to worry about, mounts are animals that are ridden by the Drifter for various reasons. 
Each Mount will either be a Quick, Draft, or Caravan Mount, with their first Concept being labelled as 
such. 
	Controlling a Mount requires the use of the Animal Husbandry Skill to manage them in the midst 
of the action. The Mount is by itself intelligent enough to be given orders that they'll follow, Loyalty only 
being tested when presented with something that could frighten, excite, or injure them. 

The Wayward Notes - Mounts in Combat
	If the Drifter is riding their majestic horse, lizardbat, or raptorhawk into battle, theyÅfll need to 
make sure what theyÅfre doing. 


Quick
Draft
Caravan
Pace
5
4
1
Combat Check vs 
Unmounted Enemy
+1 to Melee
-3 to Range
+2 to Melee
-2 to Range
+2 to Melee
+2 to Range
NSR
3
2
-
Rider NSR Bonus
+3
+2
+1


?
Exposure
Å@Å@Å@Oftentimes the real killer of vagabonds and strangers on the Errant Earth is a combination of 
the elements or other haphazard situations. Exposure is the catch-all term for various environmental 
hazards that the Drifters may encounter.
	When in a situation that would constitute Exposure, such as being in the blazing heat or biting 
cold, the GM will establish the Exposure Rating starting at D4. Every Scene in which the Drifters are 
present and subjected to the Exposure they will reduce their Endurance by the die size indicated. Thus 
a D10 Heat Exposure would reduce everyone's Endurance by D10 every Scene they are in without the 
proper gear to protect them.
Å@Å@Å@Exposure may be declared as either a Stacking or Consistent modifier. A Stacking Modifier 
increases the die size by one step every Scene the Drifter is exposed to, raising gradually until they die 
or are lost. While a Consistent modifier will remain at its Exposure Rating until a change in conditions or 
a situation has occurred. 
	Hazardous Environment Suit Armor has a Resistance Rating for different types of exposure, 
lowering the die size by a number of steps equal to the Resistance Rating. A full Coalition Self-
Contained Armor System has a Resistance of 5 toward Heat, Cold, and Radiation. Thus if they were 
subjected to a D20 level of Heat, normally lethal to anyone else, they would instead reduce it to D4.

Air Supply
Heat
Cold
Radiation
Earthblood
Starvation
Stacking
Consistent
Consistent
Consistent
Consistent
Stacking
Seconds
Hours
Hours
Minutes
Days
Days

D0
D4
D6
D8
D10
D12
D20
D20+D4+
Negligible
Trivial
Minor
Major
Serious
Dangerous
Lethal
Suicide

?
Downtime Actions
	The Drifters are always on the move and often only staying in one place long enough to rest up 
before roving out once again. However, during these moments of contemplation and peace, they 
have some downtime to pursue their own objectives and goals. 
	During Downtime, the Drifters are allowed to converse, relax, or work on various projects they 
have before them. The Drifters are free to pursue their own goals during Downtime, with the GM 
electing to resolve Scenes involving the Drifters in any order they wish or on a first come, first serve, 
basis. 
Dramatis Personae
The Drifter begins a conversation with an important 
member of the ensemble or others that may be a part of 
their immediate group. If they are in a settlement, they 
are free to talk with anyone in it.  

Field Repairs
The Drifter patches up their vehicles or armor 
themselves. They make the appropriate Skill Check to 
improve Durability efficiently, or increase Durability by 
+1d6.
If there is a workshop or other self-repair centers, they 
may increase this bonus to +1d12. 

Private
The Drifter goes off to resolve their own private issues, 
others may tag along if they wish. 

Resting 
The Drifter rests and relaxes, recovering their Endurance 
or Health naturally. If they do not need to recover, they 
may instead relax socially with others attempting to 
recover, increasing their Recovery by +2.

Stocking Up
The Drifter hits the markets or starts a scavenging spree 
in the local area. They may find something useful, or lose 
what little credits they have.
 

?
The Marketplace
	In the ruins of the Old World, the belief that one manÅfs trash is anotherÅfs treasure has taken on 
different meanings and nuances. Filled with old technology and mixed with the bustling industrial hubs 
of the new world, the Errant Earth has a plethora of weapons, armor, gear, and nearly anything else 
that a Drifter may need to succeed at their adventures and survive to tell others about their deeds.
	But where there is a need, there is the siren call of profit. Nothing is ever truly free on the Errant 
Earth, whether it must be paid in credit, deed, or blood is to be seen. 

The Wayward Notes - Credits, Baubles, and You
	Throughout the Marketplace, the term ÅgCreditsÅh will be mentioned frequently. Great Lakes 
Credits, or GLC, are the default currency in the Great Lakes Confederacy and most of the 
surrounding area. If the GM is not setting the game in the Confederacy, then the term ÅgCreditsÅh 
may be changed to anything from Marks, Sticks, Bells, Dollars, or any other kind of legal tender. The 
costs presented in Errant Earth are assumed to be a Partially Industrialized Post-Apocalypse 
Society.
	If the GM wishes to adjust the prices for different regions, situations, or currency deviations, 
then modifying costs in 25% increments is reasonable. If something is 100 in a ÅgStandardÅh area, an 
isolated community may have it cost 300 (300%) or a much more wealthy area with more ready 
access to the good may have it cost 50 (-50%).

The Current Market Rate

On Market
Black Market
Grey Market
Flush Market
Starved Market
Buy Value
Base
2x
1.5x
.5x
10x
Sell Value
10% of Cost
50% of Cost
25% of Cost
1% of Cost
Base
Reason
Item is sold as a 
standard Commodity
Items are Sold 
exclusively as illegal 
wares.
Items are sold in a 
grey area of legality.
Items are in extreme 
abundance.
Items here are 
desperately needed, 
but rarely provided.


Å@Å@Å@Formality is how easy it is for the Drifter to wear the armor and have their weapons in public 
without attracting attention - most civilized locations demand that outsiders take off their armor or 
surrender their weapons down to an ÅgAcceptableÅh Level upon entering, while rougher areas may have 
few restrictions. Areas that request a surrender often have a process for wanderers coming in, often a 
secure locker with assurances. For less trusting Drifters, storing armor in a vehicle or case before 
entering may be ideal for winning trust.
Å@Å@Å@Surrendered Weapons are often either deposited in the same safety deposit boxes or have 
other ways of detecting that they are harmless. Other times itÅfs a ÅgDonÅft See It, DonÅft Worry About ItÅh 
policy where as long as itÅfs not drawn, itÅfs not offending anybody. 

Formality
0
1 - 2
3 - 4
5 - 6
7 - 8
9 - 10
11+
Anywhere
City Outskirts
Frontier 
Town
Homestead
Bandit Town
Lawless Zone
Warzone
Packs
	Every Drifter begins with two Packs of their choice from the options presented from their 
Backgrounds and Occupations. A Pack is a small collection of items and goods that the Drifter starts 
out with. If the Drifter doesnÅft want particular goods inside of their Pack, they may choose to sell them 
at the basic exchange rate of 25% of its base cost allowing any excess Credits to be used to buy 
starting equipment they can afford. Each Pack does come with a set of Credits as their initial funds.

Packs
Contents
Credits
Aeronautics
Three Outfits, Light UA OEV Armor, Medium OA HEV Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, 
Bedroll, Two Pack Items, Two Belt Items, One Utility Item
2d6 * 100
Ascetic
One Outfit, Light UA Standard Damage Armor, Default SDC Melee Weapon Backpack, Bedroll, 
One Pack Item, One Belt Item
0
Civilian
Two Outfits, Light OA PEV Armor, Default Light Pistol Backpack, Bedroll, Three Pack Items, Two 
Belt Items
4d6 * 50
Delver
Two Outfits, Light UA HEV Armor, Default Rifle or Shotgun Weapon, Default Knife,Backpack, 
Bedroll, Two Pack Items, Four Belt Items, Two Utility Items
500
Destitute
One Outfit, Default Rifle Class Weapon, Backpack, One Belt Item
0
Exile
Two Outfits, Nice Outfit, Medium UA PEV Armor, Heavy OA HEV Armor, Default Automatic or 
Rifle Class Weapon, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, Two Pack Items, Two Belt Items, 
Two Utility Items.
1d10 * 50
Handyman
Two Outfits, Medium OA HEV Armor, Light PLATE Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, 
Bedroll, Three Pack Items, Three Belt Items, 
2d10 * 100
High 
Society
Four Outfits, Two Nice Outfits, Light UA OEV Armor, Default Rifle or Handgun Class Weapon, 
Backpack, Bedroll, One Belt Item, Three Utility Items
1d100 * 25
Magician
Two Outfits, Light UA OEV Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack item, Two 
Belt Items, Two Utility Items
1d10 * 100
Merchant
Three Outfits, Medium UA PEV Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, Four Pack Items, 
Three Belt Items, One Utility Item
1d6 * 500
Outlaw
One Outfit, Light UA PEV Armor, Medium OA HEV Armor, Default SMG, Rifle, or Shotgun Class 
Weapon, Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack Item, One Belt Item, and Two Utility Items
1d10 * 10
Professional
Two Outfits, Light UA PEV Armor, Default Rifle or SMG Class Weapon, Default Light Pistol, 
Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack Items, Two Belt Items, Two Utility Items
1d20 * 200
Psychic
Two Outfits, Light UA OEV Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack item, Two 
Belt Items, Two Utility Items
1d10 * 100
Scholarship
Three Outfits, Nice Outfit, Light UA HEV Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, Three 
Pack Items, Two Utility Items
1d6 * 250
Soldier
Two Outfits, Medium UA HEV Armor, Medium OA PEV Armor, Light PLATE Armor, default 
Assault, Rifle, Shotgun, or SMG, Default Heavy Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack Item, Two 
Belt Items, Two Utility Items
1d10 * 100
Vagabond
Two Outfits, Medium UA HEV Armor, Default D6 Damage Die Weapon, Default D4 Damage Die 
Weapon, Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack Item, Two Belt Items
1d6 * 25
Wilderness
One Outfit, Light OA OEV Armor, Default Battle Rifle, Default D6 Damage Die Melee Weapon, 
Backpack, Bedroll, Solo Tent, Two Pack Items, Three Belt Items,
1d4 * 10

Trading Out Backpack & Bedroll
150 Credits


Weapons
	The cruel reality of the modern day is that people get hurt, often by other people, but the occasional raging monsters or invasions 
of troglodyte Exos tend to leave many dead. Since the dawn of man, the weapon has served as a symbol of defiance against this reality 
and has reinforced it all the more. Over the millenia and across the stars, weapon development has never ceased and the desire to get 
an ÅgedgeÅh on the opposition via superior firepower has defined entire eras and civilization. 
	On the Errant Earth, weaponry is a symbol of the old and new world, the rifle holding back the horde of creatures in this hostile 
world just as much as being the tool used to place others in the dirt. Weapon innovation has only been matched by the constantly 
expanding needs and tastes of the world, building more elaborate weapons or putting more firepower per bullet. 
	ItÅfs theoretically impossible to categorize every variant of every weapon on the Errant Earth, a single rifle may have a dozen 
variations in a region alone let alone the countless variants and half-variants made by competition or rivals in others. To symbolize the 
most basic weapons in the field, they are referred to as ÅgDefaultÅh Weapons, while the name may change, the ÅgDefaultÅh Weapon is the 
standard template in which all its variants and mimics are built from .
 
	A WeaponÅfs Damage is the number of Damage Die that the Drifter will roll on a 
successful attack, reducing the Durability of their Armor or dealing Endurance Health 
Damage. Payload is the amount of ammunition a standard magazine or E-Mag would 
contain - Kinetic Magazines are variable in size and are often hand loaded or machine fed, 
while E-Mags are One-Size Fits All manufactured energy packs that fit inside the weapon. 
A WeaponÅfs Rate of Fire is how much of a Payload the Firearm is able to put down range, 
holding down the trigger down longer to take on a larger amount of penalties for the 
benefit of improving the amount of damage the weapon will do for the attack. Weapon 
Range is how many Spaces the weapon may be used within, if the Target is outside of 
Minimum or Maximum Range, a -2 Penalty-to-Hit is applied per excess Space. The 
Weapon Proficiency dictates which WP the Drifter uses to use Weapon Expertises. 
Handiness is the number of Hands required to successfully use the weapon. The WeaponÅfs 
Damage Type indicates what kind of Damage the weapon does, most Default WEapons 
deal either Physical or Energy Damage. Finally any Tags the Weapon has to give it special 
mechanics or features.

Weapon Handiness
One-Hand
Drifter requires a single hand to use the weapon 
successfully.
Main Hand
The Drifter requires the use of their dominant 
hand to use.
Two-Hand
The Drifter requires both hands to use the 
weapon well.
Full Body
The Drifter requires their full body to use the 
weapon, all hands on deck (literally)



Firearms
	The Firearm is the bedrock of the modern military machine, every Drifter has one, every soldier wants a better one, and every 
company wants to build the next best one. Each Default Firearm may be taken as a SD or MD variant with the cost being labeled for 
priority. SD Firearms use conventional ammunition of the old world, 9mm, 5.56, and so on. While deadly if used on the unarmored or 
unaware, they will do little against anyone who is Mega Damage Capable or has any MD Armor. MD Firearms rely on heavy caliber 
rounds or highly charged laser fire with energy weapons - if used on an unsuspecting individual they will be torn apart or disintegrated 
on impact, if they are wearing armor they may survive the initial barrage before itÅfs punctured. 

ROF Kinetic Weapons

Aimed Shot | AS
Short Burst | SB
Long Burst | LB
Full Auto | FA
Payload Used
1
4
10
20
Damage Multiplier
-
x2
x3
x6
Penalty To-Hit
-
-2
-4
-6

ROF Energy Weapons

Single Cycle | SC
Cycler I / C1
Cycler 2 / C2
Cycler 3 / C3
Payload Used
1
5
10
20
Extra Damage Die
-
+1d
+2d
+4d
Penalty To-Hit
-
-2
-4
-6


?

Default Archaic Ranged
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Longbow
3d4
1 | Arrow (SD)
1 | X-Arrow (MD)
AS
1 - 4
Archaic 
Projectiles
Full
Physical
600
2
Ranged, Reliable, 
Recoil
Crossbow
6d4
1 | Bolt (SD)
1 | X-Bolt (MD)
AS
2 - 5
Archaic 
Projectiles
Full
Physical
1200
4
Ranged, Recoil

Default Assault Firearms
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Assault Rifle
2d6
30 | Magazine 
45 | Extended Mag
AS / SB / LB / FA
1 - 5
Kinetics 
Automatics
Two
Physical
10,000
5
Reliable, 
Suppression
Energy  Squad 
Automatic Weapon
2d8
20 | E-Mag 
40 | Extendo E-Mag
SC / C1 / C2 / C3
2 - 7
Energy 
Automatics
Two
Energy
26,000
8
Suppression, Heavy
Energy Assault Rifle
2d8
10 | E-Mag 
30 | Extendo E-Mag
SC / C1 / C2 / C3
1 - 5
Energy 
Automatics
Two
Energy
14,000
6
Reliable, 
Suppression
Energy Large 
Automatica
1d8
100 | E-Box
50 | E-Mag
SC / C1 / C2 / C3
3 - 8
Heavy 
Weapons
Full
Energy
16,000
7
Crew Load, 
Suppression, Heavy
Heavy Machine Gun
1d6
150 | Box
300 | Belt
SB / LB / FA 
3 - 8
Heavy 
Weapons
Full
Physical
25,000
6
Suppression, Brace
Squad Automatic 
Weapon
2d6
30 | Magazine 
60 | Extended 
Magazine
SB / LB / FA
2 - 7
Kinetic 
Automatics
Two
Physical
20,000
7
Suppression, Brace


Default Handguns
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Auto-Pistol
1d4
20 | Magazine 
70 | Box Mag
AS / SB / LB / FA
0 - 3
Kinetics 
Handguns
One
Physical
2,750
2
 Suppression, 
Conceal
Heavy Handgun
2d4
12 | Magazine
AS
0 - 3
Kinetic 
Handguns
Main
Physical
3,500
3
Recoil
Laser Charger
2d6
15 | E-Clip
C1 / C2
0 - 3
Energy 
Handgun
Main
Energy
6,000
2

Laser Pistol
1d6
10 | E-Clips
20 | Extendo E-Clip
SC / C1 
1 - 5
Energy 
Handgun
One
Energy
5,000
1
Conceal
Light Handgun
1d4
16 | Magazine
AS / SB
0 - 3
Kinetic 
Handguns
One
Physical
2,500
1
Suppression, Heavy
Revolver
3d4
6 | Cylinder
AS
1 - 5
Kinetic 
Handguns
Main
Physical
3,000
2
Recoil

 ?

Default Rifle Firearms
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Anti-Material Rifle
2d10
7 | Magazine
AS
4 - 9
Heavy 
Weapons
Full
Physical
27,000
10
Recoil, Heavy
Battle Rifle
3d6+2
30 | Magazine 
45 | Extended Mag
AS / SB
2 - 7
Kinetic Long 
Arms
Two
Physical
8,000
5
 Suppression
Carbine
2d6+2
30 | Magazine 
45 | Extended Mag
AS
1 - 5
Kinetic Long 
Arms
Two
Physical
7,000
5
Reliable
Designated Marksman 
Rifle
3d6+5
15 | Magazine 
5 | Light Magazine
AS
2 - 7
Kinetic Long 
Arms
Full
Physical
12,000
6
Scoped, Recoil
Energy  Designated 
Marksman Rifle
4d8
10 | E-Mag
SC
2 - 7
Energy Long 
Arms
Full
Energy
18,000
7
Scoped, Recoil
Sniper Rifle
4d6+3
7 | Magazine 
24 | Box Mag
AS
4 - 9
Kinetic Long 
Arms
Full
Physical
14,000
7
Scoped, Heavy, 
Recoil
Standard Laser Rifle 
(SLR)
3d8
6 | E-Mag
SC / C1
1 - 5
Energy Long 
Arms
Two
Energy
11,000
6
Recoil

Default Shotguns
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Automatic Shotgun
3d6
12  | Shells
AS / SB
0 - 3
Kinetic 
Automatics
Two
Physical
8,000
8
 Shotgun
Cycler RIfle
3d6
5 | Pulsar Slug
AS
0 - 2
Energy Long 
Arms
Two
Energy
10,000
6
Shotgun
Pump Shotgun
4d6
6 | Shells
AS
0 - 2
Kinetic Long 
Arms
Two
Physical
6,000
4
Shotgun, Reliable, 
Recoil
Sawn Off Shotgun
5d6
2 | Shells
AS
0 - 1
Kinetic 
Handguns
Main
Physical
5,000
4
Conceal, Shotgun


Default Submachine Guns
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Heavy Submachine Gun
2d6
15 |  Light Magazine 
30 | Magazine
AS / SB / FB / FA
1 - 5
Kinetic 
Automatics
Two
Physical
6,000
7
 Suppression
Laser Rapid Fire 
Weapon (LRFW)
2d8
30 | E-Clip
SC / C1 / C2 / C3
0 - 3
Energy 
Automatics
Two
Physical
8,000
8
 Suppression
Light Submachine Gun
2d4+1
24 | Magazine
48 | Extended 
Magazine
AS
0 - 3
Kinetic 
Automatics
Main
Physical
4,000
4
 Suppression
Personal Defense 
Weapon
3d6+1
50 | Magazine
SB / FB / FA
1 - 5
Kinetic 
Automatics
Two
Physical
7,000
7
 Suppression

Melee
	Melee Weapons serve as a suitable sidearm for a majority of circumstances, though few soldiers or brave heroes want to be the 
first one face to face with a raging creature or other such monter. A majority of Melee Weapons in the modern day are designed for 
Standard Damage, its value being used to either intimidate or strike a decisive blow in the eye socket of an enemy. MD Melee Weapons 
tend to be either made of MD Capable material such as Dragon Tooth or Palladium, or using specialized technology to augment it, such 
as through Vibrotech.
	Unlike Firearms or other Ranged Weapons, Melee Weapons do not have an established Range, instead they are considered to be 
at Range 0 (or Melee) which indicates that the Target is within the same Space as them or they are in a CQC Situation. 

Default Melee Weapons
Damage
MD WP
Handiness
Formality
Credits
Tags
Knife
1dX
Modern Melee Weapons
One
0
600
Conceal
Shortsword
2dX
Modern Melee Weapons
One
1
1200

Longsword
3dX
Modern Melee Weapons
Main
2
2000
Grip
Handaxe
2dX
Modern Melee Weapons
One
1
500

Greataxe
3dX
Modern Melee Weapons
Two
3
1300
Sunder
Polearm
2dX
Modern Melee Weapons
Two
3
800
Reach
Hammer
2dX
Modern Melee WEapons
One
1
500
Stagger. Grip
Greathammer
3dX
Modern Melee Weapons
Two
3
1400
Stagger

Melee Weapon Types
Damage Die
Damage Type
Payload
Formality
Credit Value
Restrictions
Tags
[Standard Damage]
D6
Physical
-
-2
Base * .10
NA

Vibration
D6
Physical
-
+3
Base * 2
Bladed Only
Alternate
Superheated
D8
Fire
-
+4
Base * 4
NA

Energon
D8
Energy
100 | E-Clip
+2
Base * 3
NA

Enchanted
D10
Choose
-
0
Base * 100
NA

Ramshackle
D6
Physical
-
+1
Base * .5
NA
Delicate
Fallout
D8
Radiation
50 | E-Clip
+3
Base * 6
Blunt Only

?
Shields
	While combat operations have gradually escalated to more heavy firepower, when confronting enemies in close quarters or 
escaping the jaws of a monster, shields have seen a resurgence in popular combat. Shields may be used as a Melee Weapon, but their 
Block Capacity allows them to absorb damage from attacks and increase the AR of the Drifter for enhanced protection. When a Shield is 
broken, it will need to be repaired alongside armor and weapons that may have been damaged.

Shields
Damage
Block Capacity
AR
MD WP
Handiness
Formality
Credits
Bucker
1d4
15
0 / +1
Modern Melee Weapons
One
2
1500
Armguard
1d6
30
5 / +2
Modern Melee Weapons
One
4
3000
Full Shield
1d8
60
6 / +3
Modern Melee Weapons
Main
6
4000

Unarmed Techniques
Å@Å@Å@Every Drifter knows how to throw a punch or kick away a problem if they get too close. More advanced Unarmed Techniques 
come from developing these abilities further or taking the appropriate Martial Art Weapon Specialization. All Drifters know the Punch, 
Kick, and Wrestle Unarmed Attacks. Unarmed Attacks base damage will increase as the Strength of the Drifter increases, granting them 
more and more benefits toward their abilities - Drifters may always restrain their attacks to use a weaker variant of the attack if they 
wish.

Unarmed 
Attacks
Strength 13 or Less
Strength 14 - 15
Strength 16 - 18
Strength 19 - 22
Strength 22 - 24
Strength 25+
# of Actions 
to Use
Punch
1d3 SD
1d4 SD
1d6 SD
3d6 SD / 1 MD
5d6 SD / 1d4 MD
5d8 SD / 1d6 MD
1
Kick
1d6+1 SD
1d8+2 SD
1d10+3 SD
3d6+4 SD / 2 MD
5d6+5 SD / 1d4+1  MD
5d8+6 SD / 1d6+2 MD
2

Unarmed 
Attacks
Strength 13 or Less
Strength 14 - 15
Strength 16 - 18
Strength 19 - 22
Strength 22 - 24
Strength 25+
# of Actions 
to Use
To-Hit
Chop
1d6 SD
1d6+2 SD
1d8 SD
2d8 SD / 1 MD
4d8 SD / 1d6 MD
6d8 SD / 1d6+1 MD
1
-2
The Drifter unleashes a devastating Chop with their hand, granting their Attack the Stagger Tag.
Flying Kick
1d8 SD
1d10 SD
1d12 SD
2d10 SD / 2 MD
4d10 SD / 1d6 MD
4d12 SD / 1d8 SD
2
-3
The Drifter leaps toward an enemy with an elaborate jumping kick, they may move to an Adjacent Space and then make their attack. 
Slap
1 SD
1d4 SD
1d4+1 SD
2d4+2 SD
3d4+3 SD
4d4+4 SD
1
0
The Drifter backhands or fronthands the enemy, causing emotional damage as well as insulting them to their core.
Roundhouse 
Kick
1d8+1 SD
1d10+2 SD
1d12+3 SD
3d8+4 SD / 2 MD
5d8+5 SD / 1d6+1  
MD
5d10+6 SD / 1d8+2 
MD
2
-2
The Drifter swings their foot around hard, they deal a Critical Hit on a 19 or 20.
Å@Å@Å@When a Drifter engages in a Wrestling Attack, they are attempting to grapple a Target by gripping them and not letting go. 
Rather than detail the complexities, the Drifter makes a Wrestling Combat Check and if successful, they have established a hold. While 
they have a Hold, they are unable to act except make Wrestling Actions, but the grappled Target may also only take Wrestling Actions. 
The Wrestling Attack has a -4 To Hit for each Size the Target is larger than the Drifter, this is +2 To Hit for Targets that are Smaller than 
the Drifter. 
Å@Å@Å@
Break Out
The Drifter attempts to break the hold they are currently in, they make 
an Opposed Combat Check with a -2 against their aggressor, if they 
succeed, they break the grapple on them. If the Drifter has control of 
the Grapple, they may break it automatically.

Choke
The Drifter attempts to choke out the target, if the target requires 
breath and is able to be choked out, the Drifter begins a countdown of 
the TargetÅfs (HRD / 5). It takes that many Rounds, rounded down, to 
successfully KO the Target.

Pinch
The Drifter deals Punch Damage to the Target, they do not require a 
Combat Check to see if they are successful or not. If the TargetÅfs 
Strength is higher than the DrifterÅfs, then this damage is reduced by two 
steps on the Unarmed Punch Attack Chart.

Reversal
The Drifter attempts to turn the tides of the grapple, placing 
themselves in control of whatÅfs going on, A Drifter is required to beat 
the Grappler with an Opposed Combat Check. 

Slam
The Drifter slams the Target to the ground, dealing Kick Damage, but 
breaking the Hold.

Throw
The Drifter throws the Target as hard as they can away from them, 
they are forcefully moved to an Adjacent Space. 

?
Weapon Tags

Tag Name
Tag Effect
Tag Name
Tag Effect
Alternate
The Weapon has a toggle to make it inflict Standard or 
Mega Damage - takes an Action to use.
Paired
A Drifter can attack a second time with their Paired 
weapon for no additional Action.
Anti-Air (AA)
The Weapon negates the ÅgExtra SpacesÅh that Aerial 
Vehicles possess while being in the air . 
Ranged
The Weapon reduces the Penalty for exceeding the 
Max Distance to -1, but increases Penalty for being 
under Minimum Distance to -6.
AT-Weapon
The Weapon is designed to maximize Vehicular 
Damage, adding an additional Damage Due to Vehicle 
Durability. 
Reach
The Melee Weapon has a +2 to Parry other Melee 
Weapons in Melee Combat.
Brace
The Weapon must be braced to be fired (such as being 
in Cover, being Prone, or being Set-Up via Heavy), or 
suffer a -10 to Hit. 
Recoil
The Weapon produces significant recoil when fired, any 
subsequent Action in this Round using this weapon 
suffers a -4 to Hit  - this does stack. 
Conceal
The Weapon may be safely hidden on a person without 
a [Conceal] Skill Check, but can be found with a 
[Search] Skill Check. 
Reliable
If the Drifter has Weapon Proficiency, they have a +2 to 
Hit with the Weapon. 
Crew Load
The Weapon takes two Actions to Reload Successfully, 
unless another Drifter / Companion assists with a 
Reaction. 
Scoped
The Aim Down Sights Weapon Expertise now is a +6 
instead of +4.
Delicate
If the Drifter rolls a 1 on their Attack Check, the weapon 
breaks in their hand.
Shotgun
The Weapon adds a Damage Die when at Range 0.
Gory
The Weapon does double damage to Endurance or 
Health if the Target has no Natural AR.. 
Stagger
The Weapon knocks the wind out of an opponent, 
reducing # of Actions by 1 to a minimum of 1.
Grip
The Weapon can change its grip to Main Hand, Two-
Hand, or Full Body. It gains a Bonus To-Hit of +1 and +2 
respectively. 
Sunder
The Weapon is perfected in the art and breaking down 
heavy armor. Add dealing Durability Damage to Armor, 
add +1d Damage Die. 
Heavy
The Weapon takes an action to set up and an action to 
pick back up.
Suppression
The Drifter may use a Full Auto (FA) Attack on a Space, 
if any Target attempts to move to or from that area, 
they will be hit by a [Aimed Shot] Attack until the end of 
the Round. 
Natural
The Weapon is integrated into the Drifter somehow, 
whether biological or mechanical. It can be drawn for 
free action.
Unwieldy
The weapon is awkward to use, the Drifter has a -2 to 
all of their Attack Checks.
Basic Weapon Workshop
	Should the Drifters find themselves in a rather desperate need for a rather customized weapon, then they may delve deep into 
the backmarkets, exotic traders, lunatic gunsmiths, or the local psychic arms dealer in an attempt to find their perfectly customized tool 
of death. The Weapon Workshop is a quick and dirty way of allowing the GM or the Drifters to customize their weapon to be the 
idealized state of being through modifying its various properties and abilities. While not flawless, nothing beats a Rifle that costs more 
than oneÅfs body and soul to tear apart a wizard at 5 miles away.

Modifications
Description
Increase / Add
Decrease / Remove
# of Dmg Die
Increase or Decrease the Damage Die by 1d
+2,000
-1,000
Rate of Fire
Add or Remove a Rate of Fire Category from the Weapon.
+4,000
-2,000
Max Range
Increase or Decrease the Maximum Range of the Weapon
+1,500
-500
Min Range
Increase or Decrease the Minimum Range of the Weapon
-1,000
+2,000
Handiness
Increase or Decrease the Necessary Hands to use the 
Weapon Successfully by one step (One - Main - Two - Full).
-1,000
+2,000
Damage Type
Change the Damage Type of a Weapon to either a Base 
Element or a False Element. 
8,000 Base Elemental
12,000 False Elemental
Tags
Add or remove a Tag from the Weapon. 
Depends on Tag

Tag Name
Add / Remove
Tag Name
Add / Remove
Alternate
+1500 / 0
Paired
1250 / -500
Anti-Air (AA)
+4500 / -1500
Ranged
1500 / 1500
AT-Weapon
+3000 / -1000
Reach
500 / -50
Brace
-500 / 2500
Recoil
-750 / 2500
Conceal
+250 / -150
Reliable
1000 / -500
Crew Load
-500 / 1500
Scoped
1000 / -500
Delicate
-1000 / +3000
Shotgun
+2500 / 0
Gory
1000 / -1500
Stagger
1000 / -1500
Grip
3000 / -1500
Sunder
1000 / -1500
Heavy
-1000 / +2500
Suppression
1250 / -500
Natural
NA
Unwieldy
-750 / 2500

Missiles
	Rocket propelled explosive payloads require the use of a Missile Launcher or Missile Pod to be successfully employed. Often 
employed in Anti-Vehicle or Anti-Air Capacities, Missiles have proven to be a decisive factor in many engagements, though are 
expensive to purchase making them often a last resort. A Missile loaded into a weapon takes a full Action to complete, after which they 
may fire the Missile with rules dictated based on the type of Missile being fired.
	Due to the delay in firing the Missile, all effects, including Damage, are calculated at the end of the Round. A Drifter may attempt 
to attack a Missile in flight at a -20 to hit its MSR of 8 - upon taking any Mega Damage, it is destroyed instantly. If an Explosive Missile 
does hit, then if the Target is in Light or Heavy Cover, they may make a FIN Save with their Cover Bonus as a modifier. If successful, 
reduce all of the damage to a single Damage Die due to the shock. If there is no cover or they are in a vehicle, then the Missile will 
automatically hit and deal damage.

Flyswatters - Flyswatters is a missile that explodes upon being 
fired into dozens of flechette rounds for unsuspecting enemies. 
Requires a Combat Check to Hit, it will deal 2d4 Damage per 
Swatter Fired.

Fragmentation & High Explosive- Typical Explosive Missiles. 
Targets a Space and will deal damage to everyone inside of that 
Space. If the Target is in Light or Heavy Cover, they may make a 
FIN Save with their Cover Bonus as a modifier. If successful, reduce 
all of the damage

Heavy & Light Guided Missiles  - Using an Onboard System, the 
Drifter guides the dangerous missile towards a Target. They may 
spend additional Actions to improve their chance to hit their 
Target and deal damage similar to a Fragmentation / High 
Explosive Missiles.

Long Flight Missiles  - Using a delayed action accelerate, Long 
Flight Missiles do not record their explosive damage until the end 
of the Turn after the initial firing Round.

Micro Missiles  - A Missile Payload that breaks apart mid flight to 
distribute a number of additional Micro Missiles to saturate a 
target area. With [Spread] the Missile will deal its damage to all 
Targets in all Zones it affects. Due to the saturation effect, Micro 
Missiles have a -4 to Dodge or Save against them. 

Napalm - A catastrophic missile that saturates a number of 
Spaces in burning napalm. All Targets who fail their Save to resist 
it are also set on fire, dealing 1d10 Mega Damage at the end of 
every Round until it is put out.

Screechers - A horrific sound emanates from these missiles as 
they fly through the air, most animals, monsters, and creatures 
with sensitive hearing attempt to run away unless they can make a 
WIL Save.  

Squash Heads - A broad flat headed missile with the goal of 
disrupting the internal chemistry of the occupant. If fired at a 
Vehicle, will deal 1d4 Endurance / Health Damage to all Occupants. 

Starshells  - Deal no damage, but will illuminate a 6-Space Radius 
around them. The Drifter does not need to roll to hit with Starshells. 
If they were to directly shoot at civilians or infantry with Starshells 
however they will deal 1d2 Explosive Damage.


Missile Type
Damage
Damage Type
Range
Tags
Credits
Flyswatters
2d4
Kinetic
0 - 1
Gory, Double Shot
150
Fragmentation
4d8
Explosive
3 - 6
Gory
200
Guided, Heavy
5d10
Explosive
2 - 4
Guided, Anti-Armor
800
Guided, Light
3d10
Explosive
1 - 3
Guided
600
High Explosive
4d12
Explosive
1 - 3
Anti-Armor
250
Long Flight Missiles
3d10
Explosive
3 - 7

375
Micro Missiles
1d4
Explosive
1 - 4
Spread (1d6)
400
Napalm
2d4
Explosive
2 - 4

750
Screechers
1d2
Sonic
2 - 5
Spread (1d3)

Squash Heads
2d10
Special
0 - 2
Sunder, Stagger
400
Starshell
0d0
Explosive
1 - 5
Special Å¶
120

Missile Tag Name
Tag Effect
Double Shot
When making an Attack, may spend two Volleys and double the damage.
Guided
Guided Weapons rely on the Drifter to follow it, the Drifter may spend an additional Action to add a +4 To-Hit.
Spread
Roll the Spread Value, that is the number of Spaces in addition to the TargetÅfs Space that may be struck by the Attack.


Armor
	With the endless march of weaponry comes the ceaseless advance of ways to not die to it. 
Armor is the first, last, and often only line of defense that a Drifter has in the field. Through 
sophisticated materials and painstaking work, conventional armor on the Errant Earth is able to 
sustain damage from Mega Damage sources, preventing the soft gooey individual underneath those 
layers being turned into a fond memory for others to recollect. 
	Similar to Weapons, Armor variations have exceeded the ability to successfully categorize 
them as every two-bit bandit or shining hero has their own customized armor rig to suit their needs. 
Though instead of modifying barrel length and ammunition being loaded into it - Armor is primarily 
categorized based on its function and ability to protect the user. 
 
	The two most important facets of Armor are its Durability and its Armor Rating.
	Armor Durability measures the amount of damage the Armor can absorb before it breaks to 
reveal the Drifter inside. Upon taking the appropriate damage, the Armor Durability will be reduced 
first - slowly whittling away the Drifter's options before they are turned into paste. 
	Armor Rating is the ability for the Armor to outright mitigate damage by it either bouncing or 
being rendered ineffective. It is not the measure of their ability to "avoid being hit" similar to NSR, but 
instead their ability to avoid taking damage from a hit that would have occured. Drifters relying on AR 
over their NSR are betting on either surviving effects in an area or hoping their armor can absorb the 
hits they will be taking. Armor Rating is not added together, instead the ÅgBestÅh Armor Rating is taken, 
and any modifiers through different sources of Armor Rating will add to that value.
	The Drifter will have a Maneuverability Modifier. The Maneuverability Modifier is a simple way 
to ascertain how flexible and able to move the Drifter is, taking a penalty to any action that would 
demand fine movement, quick reflexes, or other such ÅgManeuverability Situations.Åh Finally, there is 
Simmer Rating (SR) - Simmer is how hard it is for the Heat Sinks inside the suit of armor to dissipate a 
build up of Magical or Psychic Heat. Without more open ended and breathy armor, Magicians and 
Psychics risk overheating themselves to sometimes explosive results. The SR directly reduces the 
Magician or PsychicÅfs total Heat they are able to draw upon. 
Å@Å@Å@?
Armor Layers
	Traditional Armor Rig Systems are designed in consideration with the three Layers: Under, 
Over, and Plating.
	Under Armour (UA) fights tight to the skin and isn't immediately noticeable to many if they are 
wearing clothing or any other kind of armor. While it doesn't provide exceptional Armor Durability, it 
does provide simple protection at a discounted price.
	Over Armor (OA) is the "default" consideration for most armor types. The Drifter's Over Armor 
is often bulky and built to last, relying on interlocking series of plates or absorbing tissue to mitigate 
damage coming toward them. It is obvious to almost anyone that a Drifter is wearing their Overarmor.
	Finally Plating (PLATE) is accessorized additions fitted to high impact areas and other serious 
considerations. While bulky and extremely obvious, Plating does allow that extra bit of Durability and 
Armor Rating to pull through in desperate circumstances.
	When a Drifter is adorning themselves in their Armor, they may choose to wear one set of 
Under Armour, Over Armor, and Plating of their choice - adding together all of their Armor Durability 
and Armor Rating together to determine their final amount.

Armor Weights
	To measure the protectiveness of each type of Armor, each one will be assigned a different 
Weight Class. The total Weight of the Armor isn't necessarily how heavy it is to hold or lug around, but 
instead the density and reinforced plates that make up the actual armored sections. In short, the 
Weight Class directly correlates the defensive properties of the Armor being worn.
	There are four Weight Classes: Light, Medium, Heavy, and Juggernaut. Each one comes with its 
own bonuses and drawbacks tied to if it is being used as UA, OA, or PLATEs. Mixing and matching 
Weight Classes is possible (Light Under Armor, Heavy Over Armor, Juggernaut Plating). 

Under Armor (UA) Weight Classes
Durability
AR 
(Base AR / Bonus)
Maneuverability 
Modifier
Simmer Rating
(SR)
Formality
Credit Cost
Light
15
-
-
-
0
3,000
Medium
25
-
-
-
1
5,000
Heavy
35
-
-1 / -5%
2
3
8,000
Juggernaut
45
5 / +0
-2 / -10%
4
5
12,000

Over Armor (UA) Weight Classes
Durability
AR 
(Base AR / Bonus)
Maneuverability 
Modifier
Simmer Rating 
(SR)
Formality
Credit Cost
Light
20
-
-
2
2
9.000
Medium
40
5 / +0
-2 / -10%
4
4
12,000
Heavy
60
6 / +1
-4 / -20%
6
8
15.000
Juggernaut
80
8 / +1
-6 / -30%
8
12
18,000

Plating (PLATE) Weight Classes
Durability
AR 
(Base AR / Bonus)
Maneuverability 
Modifier
Simmer Rating 
(SR)
Formality
Credit Cost
Light
10
0 / +1
-
1
3
2,500
Medium
20
5 / +1
-1 / -5%
3
5
4,500
Heavy
30
6 / +2
-3 / -15%
5
7
6,500
Juggernaut
40
7 / +3
-5 / -25%
7
9
8,500
HEV, PEV, & OEV Variant Suits
Å@Å@Å@Among armorers in the new world, protection from a bullet is the most important aspect of 
armor and associated accessories. Among survivors of the new world, protection from a bullet is often 
the least of their worries as their skin is melting off from radiation. Most UA and OA are built with the 
assumption of being an HEV, PEV, or OEV Suit. Similar to Durability and Armor Rating, Resistances 
between armors do stack, increasing the protection they may possess. However, only the smallest Air 
Supply is considered for purposes of O2 usage. 
Å@Å@Å@Hazardous Environment Suits, or HEV Suits, are top of the line protection against the elements, 
coming with a stabilized environment inside of the armor to allow the wearer to breathe fresh oxygen, 
keep themselves cool in hot environments, and maximize warmth in sub-zero temperatures. A full 
HEV suit offers a computer controlled life support system, with automatic filters for hazardous 
chemicals or gasses, operating with a closed air supply system for five hours, and have inbuilt systems 
for short range (5 Miles) radio communications on a closed network if synced properly. HEV Suits offer 
resistance against various Exposure hazards that the Drifter may face, allowing them the extra 
satisfaction of not dying before the fighting begins. 
Å@Å@Å@HEV Suits have closed helmets to both protect the wearer from physical harm as well as from 
various sources of Exposure - this can be intimidating to some. 

HEV Suit Variants
Heat
Cold
Radiation
Earthblood
SR
Formality
Credit Cost
Under Armor (UA)
3
3
1
0
2
1
x 1.5
Over Armor (OA)
5
5
5
2
3
4
x 1.5

Å@Å@Å@Partial Environment Suits, or PEV Suits are the cheaper and more standardized HEV Suits that 
many have come to appreciate. With lighting insulating and more standard grade materials, PEV Suits 
are considered the ÅgDefaultÅh for a majority of armor - even if it may be getting sold at a higher grade 
While it still offers a 3 Hour Oxygen Supply, without more intensive protections gasses and other 
harmful effects may begin to seep in almost immediately should they be present in the environment. 
Due to their more ubiquitous nature, PEV Suits donÅft raise suspicion anymore than the armor itself, 
even with self-contained armor systems, rather than layers of facial masking, it often contains a light 
see-through layer or simple facial protection that is easily removed.  
Å@Å@Å@
PEV Suit Variants
Heat
Cold
Radiation
Earthblood
SR
Formality
Credit Cost
Under Armor (UA)
1
1
0
0
1
0
x 1
Over Armor (OA)
3
3
2
0
2
0
x 1

Å@Å@Å@Open Environment Suits, or OEV Suits, are seen as the future for wanderers, vagabonds, and 
other homeless people with few credits to their name. Rather than waste money on useless things 
such as basic protection against the elements, costs can be brought down to maximize the protection 
against aggravated assault.
Å@Å@Å@
OEV Suit Variants
Heat
Cold
Radiation
Earthblood
SR
Formality
Credit Cost
Under Armor (UA)
0
0
0
0
0
0
x .5
Over Armor (OA)
0
0
0
0
1
0
x .5

Gear & Services
	When it comes to the markets of the new world, itÅfs inevitable that the multitude of gear, 
supplies, and miscellaneous ÅgStuffÅh that the Drifters pick up over time. During their adventures, the 
Drifter will be able to hit the town and spend their Credits on different kinds of gear and supplies that 
they may need for the journey ahead. Rather than have a comprehensive list of ÅgthingsÅh Errant Earth 
has vague categories of supplies that are split up between its Tech Level and overall function.
	As long as the Drifter has a backpack or other pack on their person, they may have eight Pack 
Items on their person at any time in addition to any of their additional gear. Smaller items may be 
classified as Belt size, meaning they can be fitted around the belt of the Drifter to more easily reach. 
They can support three Belt Items at any point.


Tech Level
Neolithic // ? Cost
Tools are ramshackle and simplistic. 
Breaks upon use.
Medieval // ? Cost
Handmade tools using simplistic 
artisan-focused works.
Industrial // Full Cost
Mass Produced Goods using readily 
available materials.
Pre-Collapse // Double Cost
High Technology from a time before 
the collapse, difficult to manufacture.
Exo // Quadruple Cost
Technology spilled in through the 
Tears or brought to the 


Gear & Supplies
Example
Size
Basic Cost
Apparel
WorkmanÅfs Outfit, Party 
Outfit
Pack
5 - 100
Baubles
Toys, Parts, Indistinct 
Items of Dubious Value
Belt
2 - 2000
Electrical Devices
Bugs, Wrist Computer, 
Recorder, Geiger Counter
Pack or 
Belt
250 - 2500
Hardware, Large
Crowbar, Shovel, Saw,  
Pack
30 - 150
Hardware, Small
Screwdrivers, Carving 
Knife, Wrench
Belt
15 - 50
Medical Supplies
First Aid Kit, SurgeonÅfs Kit
Pack
150 - 500
Survival Supplies
Tent, Bedrolls, Respirator,
Pack
100 - 250
Trade Goods
Bag of Coffee, Opium
Pack
100 - 400
Travel Gear
Binoculars, Entrenching 
Tool
Belt
80 - 260
Travel Rations & Food
Hardtack, Trail Ration, 
Jerky Kit
Belt
15 - 50


The Wayward Notes - A Simple Way to Avoid Little Quibbles
	This is a bit stranger than most item lists, so IÅfll be explaining it the best I can. Instead of 
worrying about every individual item, a Drifter asks if he can find an ÅgEntrenching ToolÅh and hits the 
market. If heÅfs in a Civilized Area, heÅfs working at a Industrial Tech Level - GM agrees and sets the 
price of the Travel Gear to about 120 Credits. 
	This Entrenching Tool is a simple metallic object at the end of the day, price being more for 
value and make. A Medieval Entrenching Tool is simpler to make, more rigid and less flexible than 
an Industrial one. Pre-Collapse Entrenching Tools could fold up to a full shovel or be folded into 
each other to fit in the palm of a hand. An Exo Entrenching Tool can be anything from a 
biomechanical thing that digs through anything bar metal or some kind of off kilter device that 
most agree ÅgDigsÅh but may not be the actual use.
	Do not quibble about details - you have an item, you donÅft have an item. 

?
Utility Items
	Utility Items are considered to be Belt Items, able to be used for an Action by the Drifter to 
assist them in combat or other situations.

Grenade
Description
Credits
Fragmentation
A military fragmentation grenade. Range 0 - 2. Deals 2d10 Explosive Damage to all 
Targets inside of the Space - Save vs Explosives.
100
Shocker
Electrical discharge built to fry Cybernetics. Range 0 - 2 - Deals 3d6 ESP Damage,
75
Smoke Grenade
Standardized White Phosphorus Based Smoke Grenade. Range 0 - 2. Lingers for 10 
Rounds on a Space, provides Light Cover in the Space.
35
Stinger
A pop grenade filled with rubber balls, intended to knock out or disable others. Range 0 
- 2, deals 6d6 SDC Physical Damage. 
75
Stun
A standard stun grenade will disorient and disrupt anyone caught in the blast radius. 
Range 0 - 2 , inflicts the [Stagger] Condition on all Targets inside of the Space.
60
Tear Gas
A lachrymator distribution grenade, consisting of aerosolized solid or liquid to disorient a 
group. Range 0 - 2, lingers for 3 Rounds, all Targets without air filtration have -4 to all 
Actions and -1 Actions.
120

Medico
Description
Credits
D-IX (4 Pack)
A potent military grade pill for going fast or die trying. Add +5 to all Combat Checks, but 
after the battle ends they gain a Scar.
300
Euphoria Bottle
Kill Self.
125
Heroin
A potent pain reliever, restores 1d10 ESP and Endurance.
150
Kosov Flask  
(3 Drinks)
Restore 2d12 Magic Power - Burns the throat and knocks out any Non-Magic User
200
Lazarium Shot
The Drifter injects themselves with liquidized Lazarium solution, rapidly developing cell 
growth in the wounded areas. They recover 3d6 Endurance or Health. 
250
Medical Kit
A standard medkit with necessary medical supplies in it - may use a Medical Skill Check 
with a +25% or make a Field Medicine Check as if their Skill was 50%.
150
Morphine
A Military grade pain reliever, restores 2d10 ESP and Endurance.
250
Pyrholidon
Anti-Radiation Medication, increases Radiation Exposure Resistance by 5, but induces 
psychedelic tendencies and situations if the Drifter fails a ANM Save.
125
White Vial
Cures Poisons or Other Toxins inside of the body. 
100
Yellow Vial
Tastes like lead, contain all the nutrients one needs for an entire day in one easy bottle. 
150

The Wayward Notes - Treasure, Loot, and Other Valuables
	Similar to how ÅgBaublesÅh are of equal value to Credits, whenever the Drifters find a collection 
of ÅgTreasureÅh or other valuable items that donÅft do anything except Ågbe valuableÅh they can be sold 
off at a 1:1 Credit. More exclusive buyers may even purchase it for more (or less) the cost 
established based on their means and desire to have it.

?

Ammunition
Ammo Type
Credits
Description
Ammo Belt
Physical
150
A belt of Loader Kinetic Ammunition, needing to be fed through the 
firearm by hand to make sure it doesnÅft jam.
Arrow, Standard
Physical
15
A quiver of 20 Standard Arrows, they only deal Standard Damage.
Arrow, Xtreme
Physical
50
A quiver of 10 Xtreme Arrows, able to deal Mega Damage.
Bolt, Standard
Physical
30
A quiver of 15 Standard Bolts, they only deal Standard Damage.
Bolt, Xtreme
Physical
80
A quiver of 5 Xtreme Bolts, able to deal Mega Damage.
Box of Shells (20)
Physical
20
A box of conventional shotgun shells, traditionally 12-Guage Buckshot. 
May purchase a box of Slugs to lose the Shotgun Tag but gain +5 
Damage.
Cycler Slug
Energy
150
A Cycler Slug inserted into certain Energy Weapons, produces large 
amounts of energy by itself, but takes two hours to fully recharge. 
Cylinder
Physical
30
A standard 6-Shots for a Revolver in a convenient rapid reloading 
cylinder. Individual bullets may be purchased for 3 Credits and Hand 
Loaded.
E-Clip
Energy
100
An Energy Clip designed to be easily rechargeable, slotted into any 
Energy Firearm to be able to work. Requires 30 Minutes to Recharge.
E-Clip, Extendo
Energy
250
An Energy Clip with a larger storage capacity for increased firepower 
and ammunition. Requires an Hour to Recharge.
Magazine
Physical
25
Standard Kinetic Firearm Ammunition - Ubiquitous in most communities.
Magazine, Box
Physical
100
A Box of Loader Kinetic Ammunition, containing more bullet per bullet than 
thought possible.
Magazine, 
Extended
Physical
75
Extended Kinetic Firearm Ammunition - More Bullet for the Same 
Magazine
Magazine, Light
Physical
50
A Light Heavy Loader Kinetic Firearm, ideal for heavy weapons on the go.





?
Vehicles
	Vehicles cover a wide range of different forms of transport on the Errant Earth. When the world 
went to ruin and the Tears opened up, the large scale vehicle manufacturers were some of the few 
industries that kept struggling - soon replaced by mavericks and garages creating their ideal 
protection against the elements. When describing a Vehicle, itÅfs important to know that Cars, Trucks, 
Aircraft, and even bipedal Vertical Armored Units fall into the same category. Knowing how to engage 
and deal with these threats may keep a Drifter alive longer than most.
	Vehicles come in six sizes dictating their overall size and difficulty to control - Personal, 
Compact, Mid-Size, Large, Rig, and Titanic. Each of these will be assigned a Vehicle Supertype, 
Vehicle Designation, Propulsion System, and Combat Readiness.

Vehicle Size Categories

Personal
Compact
Mid-Size
Large
Rig
Titanic
Mechanical 
Survival Rating
8
6
4
2
0
0
Hull
20
30
40
50
60
70
Durability
40
80
120
160
200
250
Vehicle Pace
5
4
3
2
1
? 
Passengers
(Comfortable / Maximum)
1 / 1
2 / 4
4 / 6
5 / 8
10 / 14
16 / 24
Combat Spaces 
Occupied
Any Number
2 per Space
1 per  Space
1 per  Space
1 per  4-6 
Spaces
1 per  12 to 16 
Spaces
Module Slots
1
2
3
4
5
6
Credit Cost
10,000
30,000
50,000
75,000
100,000
150,000

	The Vehicle Supertype indicates the primary function of the Vehicle, with different Supertypes 
influencing the make and design of the vehicle overall.

Vehicle Supertypes

Combat
Logistics
Transport
Nomadic
Travel
Extreme
MUT 
MSR
+1
+2
-2
+1
0
+1
-1
Hull
+15
0
+10
+15
0
+5
+20
Durability
+30
0
0
+15
+30
+25
+20
Vehicle Pace
0
0
+1
+1
+1
+2
-1
Passengers
(Comfortable / 
Maximum)
0
+1 / +2
+3 / +5
-1 / -1
0
-3 / -6
0
Module Slots
+2
-1
0
+1
0
-1
+2
Credit Cost
200%
150%
100%
150%
100%
200%
175%

	The Vehicle Designation is the overall make and design of the Vehicle, broken down into a few 
categories to highlight their unique characteristics and demands of the Pilot to actually use them. 

Vehicle Designation

Terrestrial
Tank
Aquatic
Aerial
VAC Unit
MSR
0
-4
-2
+4
+1
Hull
0
+10
+15
-25
+20
Durability
0
+40
0
-25
+20
Vehicle Pace
0
-1
-1
+2
-1
Passengers
(Comfortable / Maximum)
0
-2 / -4
+0 / +3
-5 / -5
-8 / -8
Module Slots
0
-1
+1
-1
+1
Credit Cost
-
+50%
+25%
+150%
+125%

	The VehicleÅfs Propulsion System influences a lot about how it was built as well as the necessary 
benefits and problems that come along with purchasing it. It may be the best for the city, but taking it 
out on the great unknown may lead to a crash and untimely demise.

Terrestrial & Tank Propulsion Type

Hull
Durability
Pace
Modules
Credits
Description
Wheels
-
-
-
-
-
The Vehicle is wheeled and enjoys all the amenities of 
road travel.
Treads
+5
+10
-2
-1
+50%
The Vehicle has a set of treads to move it - they treat 
Wayfinding as Path Travel and adds +2d to their 
Ramming Attempt.
Hover
-15
-10
+1
-
+75%
The Vehicle has been rigged with hover tech, allowing 
it to float off the ground. They treat Hazardous 
Terrain as Paths and anyone driving is considered off 
the ground for purposes of hazards.

Aquatic Propulsion Type

Hull
Durability
Pace
Modules
Credits
Description
Engine
+5
-
+1
-2
-
The Vehicle has an engine that needs to be 
maintained to continue movement.
Wind
-10
-15
0
+1
-50%
The Vehicle is entirely moved by the winds. Drifters 
will roll a D6 every day:

1
Bad Winds (No 
Movement)
4-5
Tradewind (+1 Move, +5 
Miles)
2-3
Rightwind (Standard)
6
Favorable Winds (+3 
Pace, +10 Miles)



The Wayward Notes - Credit Cost (or Notepad Fights Math)
To determine the price of a Vehicle take the Base Cost (Size) and multiply it by the various features it is 
composed of. A Compact (30,000) Nomadic (1.5) Hover Tank (.75 + .5) has a total cost of 67,500 Credits (30,000 x 
2.25).
?

Aerial Propulsion Type

Hull
Durability
Pace
Modules
Credits
Description
Jet 
Engine
-15
-20
+3
+1
+50%
Relying on a Jet Engine, the Vehicle will always move 
its maximum Pace at the start of the Combat Round 
in the pilotÅfs chosen angle. If it stops for any reason, it 
will begin to descend and force a Piloting Check (-4/-
20%) to land it successfully except on a runway.
VTOL 
(Vertical Takeoff 
& Landing)
0
0
+1
+1
+25%
The VTOL Aircraft takes off and lands using rotary 
blades or other hover tech, while airborne it can 
descend and land with a Piloting Check. 
Propeller 
Engine
-15
-30
+1
-1
-25%
Using a Propeller to start the engine successfully, the 
Vehicle will always move half its maximum Pace at 
the start of the Combat Round in the PilotÅfs chosen 
angle. If it stops for any reason, it will begin to 
descend and force a Piloting Check (-4/-20%) to land 
it successfully except on a runway.

VAC Propulsion Type

Hull
Durability
Pace
Modules
Credits
Description
Humanoid
0
0
0
0
-
The VAC Unit stands on two legs, almost humanoid in 
appearance.
Spider 
Walker
0
0
-1
+1
+100%
The VAC Unit uses four to eight sophisticated legs to 
move itself, while slower, its stability turns Paths into 
Road Quality.
Hover
-10
-10
+1
-
+75%
The VAC Unit floats ominously off the ground, it treats 
all Hazardous Terrain as Path Terrain.
Chicken 
Walker
-15
-20
+2
-1
-25%
The VAC UnitÅfs Legs are Digitigrade for added 
movement support and reaction, if forcing lighter 
armoring.
Quadrupedal
+20
+25
-2
+1
+150%
The VAC Unit has a set of four powerful legs that 
keeps it upright and stabilized; it adds a +2 to all 
Combat Actions to fire its weapons. 

Å@Å@Å@The final aspect of a vehicle is its combat readiness, the number of Hardpoints it has available. 
The Drifters are able to convert Modules at a one to two ratio  to attach weapons to.
	Any Weapon attached to a Vehicle has three important notes attached to it. 

Weapon Hardpoints 
are Attached
Each Vehicle Hardpoint is attached somewhere on the Vehicle itself, meaning 
that unless someone is piloting or manning the Hardpoint, it cannot be used, but 
it cannot be disarmed either.
Vehicle Weapons are 
Large & Powerful
Vehicle Weapons use the Default Weapons as their main armaments, but 
increase the number of Damage Die they use by +3d. Due to this increase, they 
also referred to something different .
Vehicle Weapons are 
Expensive
The cost of a Hardpoint Weapon is roughly quadruple the price of the Default 
Weapon itself. Weapons arenÅft cheap.
?

Module
Effect
Credits
Ablative Armor
When the Drifter takes damage, they may describe Ablative Armor to 
reduce Damage to 0.
500
Ace Combat Simulator
The Drifter adds a +2 to a Combat Check if they are Piloting the Vehicle.
1000
Autoloaders
May reload one Weapon for free every Round.
1500
Bunk House
On a Large, Rig, or Titanic Vehicle - Creates Comfortable Living Space for 
the Pilot and a number of Passengers equal to Comfortable Level.
2500
Combat Data Recorder
Has a Combat Data Recorder installed, a modified Black Box that details 
any combat logs or excursions that the Vehicle had logged.
500
Don Quixote
When making the [Ram] Action, reduce damage taken by -2d.
800
Emergency Guidelights
The Vehicle may be shutdown automatically during an Ejection.
400
EMP Spiker
Use an Action to deal 3d12 EMP Damage to all Targets within the same 
Space. EMP Damage does not affect flesh and blood, but Robots, 
Cyborgs, and Vehicles.
2500
Faked Transponder
Appears on various sensors and Black Box readers as a different vehicle 
entirely.
1250
Fined Tuned Machine
When making a Daredevil Skill Check, they may add +10% to their attempt.
800
Freight Canister
Increase Cargo Capacity by +15. Cargo Capacity is a number of Pack 
Sized Items that the Vehicle may have on it safely.
250
Fuzzy Dice
At the start of the Round, roll 2d6. If results are matching (2,2 / 3,3 / 4,4 etc) 
then add +2 Initiative. If they are not, reduce Initiative by -1. Check em'
15
Gyro Jets
During the Dodge Reaction, add a +3 .
850
Hardlight Shield Generator
Gain a Shield with 30 Block Capacity
1500
Hull Tech
Increase Hull by +15
250
Intelligent Targeting 
Systems
One Weapon may be linked to the ITS - if it has not been used this Round, 
at the end of the Round, the Weapon targets the closest hostile and makes 
an Attack against the Target.
2000
Life Pod
When the Vehicle is destroyed or disabled, it automatically Ejects the Pilots 
and any Passengers.
1500
Luddic Hero
When coming into contact with a Target, destroy Vehicle, deal an 
additional 20d10 Mega Damage to Target after the Ram Damage. 
500
Luddic Knight
When taking or dealing Ram Damage, increase the damage by +2d to 
both sides of the ramming action.
1250
Missile Racks
Gain a Number of Missiles based on Vehicle Size.
Personal
Compact
Mid-Size
Large
Rig
Titanic
1
3
5
7
10
15

1500
Nitro Button
Once per Combat, increase the Pace of the Vehicle by +2
1200
Nomadic Camper
On a Personal, Compact, or Midsize Vehicle - Creatures a comfortable 
Living Space or sleeping area for the Pilot.
1500
Overclocker
Reduce Hull by 1d6 to gain an additional +1 Pace for the remainder of the 
Round.
1500
Pop Shield Generator
When first taking Hull Damage, reduce damage to 0.
800
Power Converter
When taking Energy Damage, the Vehicle only takes half.
2500
Powervent
When taking EMP Damage, the Vehicle only takes half.
3000
Ramhead
When making a Ram Action the Target takes +2d6 Damage.
600
Rangefinder, Ballistic
Increase the Range of all Kinetic Weapons by +2
800
Rangefinder, Laser
Increase the Range of all Energy Weapons by +2
800
Rangefinder, Universal
Increase Range of all Ballistic and Laser Weapons by +2
1500
Ranger Crate
The Pilot increases the number of Pack Items they have available by +4 
and number of Belt Items by +5 while Piloting.
300
Repair Diagnostics
When using the [Emergency Repair] Action, they add a +2d to the amount 
of Durability they are able to recover.
1000
Reserve Battery
If the Vehicle is ever disabled, it may be kickstarted back to life with the 
Reserve Battery - destroys the Reserve Battery.
500
Scrambler System
Has an integrated Scrambler System, all Missiles take a -4 to Hit.
1800
Self-Repairing System
During the Logistics Phase, increase Durability by +1d6
3500
Sensor Booster
Uncovers any Electromagnetic and Heat Signatures in addition to 
enhanced (1+ Mile) Sensor Systems.
1250
Speed Booster
Increase Pace by +1
1500
SPIKEX
At the Start of the Round, the Drifter may use the SPIKEX and move their 
complete Pace. Reduces Hull by -2d6.
750
Tailrider
The Pilot may spend an Action to [Lock-On] to a Target, allowing them to 
know where they are on the field and gain a +2 to Combat Checks against 
them.
1000
Target Computer
Able to set a Lock-On with two Targets
1500
Themed
The Vehicle has been custom designed to appear as something 
impractical or ridiculous - this adds no  bonuses, this is purely aesthetic.
2500
Uptime Ticker
Increase Personal Initiative by +2 while Piloting.
600
Virtual Intelligent Assistant
A helpful VI that wants to help you, comes in many exotic personalities 
including Helpful Mentor, Suave Wingman, Clingy Girlfriend, and Person 
Who Wants to Kill You.
8000
Zero Sight
Firing different weapons at the same target grants a +1 to Combat Checks 
for each subsequent Weapon used once per Round.
1250

Important Notes on Vehicles
	Vehicles on the Errant Earth are often personalized to the Pilot itself, making it difficult to drive 
another person's ride. To represent this, the Drifter will need to make a Pilot Skill Check to either 
intuitively understand it or spend the next minute attempting to figure out how to operate the vehicle 
(-4 to all Actions and -1 Combat Action).
	A Vehicle can be disabled if its Durability reaches 0, representing major damage to stop it 
functioning. It may be forced to keep going, but will have a -4 / -20% to all Actions and -1 Combat 
Action until it's repaired. If its Hull reaches 0, the Vehicle is destroyed and explodes.
	And scarcely talked about, but important note none the less, Vehicles are expensive and 
people rarely wish to part with them except under duress or by taking the keys from their corpse. 
Calculating the cost here is the ÅgAt MarketÅh Cost - expect purchasing a large vehicle to be much more 
difficult and expensive on the Errant Earth. 
?
Enemies of the Errant Earth
	The Drifters will inevitably come into conflict with others, and the field of battle is indiscriminate 
in its rage and fury. Creating an opposing force is not complicated, but depending on the relative 
"Importance" of the enemy, the creation is different.

Extras
Å@Å@Å@Extras are Characters that are present and assisting / hindering the efforts of the Drifters, but 
do not have a name or a unique relationship to the Drifters themselves. Weather than giving them a 
full set of Skills, Attributes, and Abilities, they instead have a series of Concepts which define who they 
are.
Å@Å@Å@Each Extra has one to three Concepts which define their abilities, broad terms that encompass 
many different skills and abilities in a single phrase or idea. These are ranked from 1 (Terrible) to 18 
(Paragon), reflecting how important the Concept is to the Extra as well as their ability to manipulate it. 
If the Extra needs to make an Attribute Check or Save, they will use the most relevant Concept they 
possess. Thus Backwoods Ranger 10 would have an Attribute score of 10 for everything relevant to 
that Concept. If an Extra needs to perform a Skill Check, they will take their Concept and multiply it by 
5, reflecting their innate abilities in that category. Using the Backwoods Ranger above, they would 
have a 50% to succeed at any Skill Check that would require the use of that Concept.
Å@Å@Å@If an Extra does not have a Concept that is relevant, they will have to Default to their Base 
Competency. Base Competency is taking one of their Concepts and applying a -5 modifier to it. They 
may use the best Concept if it is vaguely relevant to the Extra, if it is completely outside of the realm of 
the Extra, they apply it to their lowest Concept.
Å@Å@Å@From there the Extra is assigned Combat Training, Weapons, Armor, and anything else relevant 
for their role. 

Example
Renegade Scientist
Coalition Pilot
Exo Miner
Mercenary Charlatan
Scientist 12  
Smuggler 7
Pilot 11 
Coalition Soldier 10
Exo 8
Mining 12
Smooth Talker 15
Gunslinger 8

Å@Å@Å@Whenever an Extra is under threat their Health is equal to their largest Concept. Should they 
lose all of their Health, they will either die instantly or be incapacitated. If the Extra is considered an 
MD Creature, they will instead multiply their highest Concept by 3, 5, 7, or 10 to determine how much 
MD they possess. The value is based on the relative danger, size, and effectiveness of the Extra. 
Extras may have benefits based on an Exo Type, Robot Chassis, or other benefits that come from 
these types of backgrounds, but will not benefit from any other aspects. 
?
Advanced Characters
	Advanced Characters are important aspects of Errant Earth that play a part in the story and 
the DrifterÅfs personal struggles. Advanced Characters have Attributes and Skills similar to the Drifters, 
but have a ÅgCurated ListÅh that signify major notes or unique skills they may possess. In addition to 
possessing three to five Concepts, they are able to have a set of Skills that signify their abilities or 
nature. 
	Advanced Characters also adopt one to two Backgrounds or Occupations to signify their 
abilities, their total CL being equal to their highest Concept, minus five, to represent their skills. Any 
benefits gained from these Backgrounds and Occupations may be applied as well, but certain 
restrictions may apply or depend on the Advanced Character is made. 

Example Side Character
Dr. Amelia Foster, Biologist (CL 4) - Academic 4, Scientist 4
ANM 10, BRV 14, COM 18, FIN 9, HRD 6, POW 11, SPD 10, WIL 12
Moral Doctor 6, Ecological Obsession 7, and Face of Project Hope 9
Åú	Deception (15%)
Åú	Formal Science: Medical (80%)
Åú	Investigation (75%)
Åú	Language: Federal and Algonquin (98%)
Åú	Literacy: American and Algonquin (98%)
Åú	Natural Science: Biology (80%)
Åú	Surgery (80%)
Åú	Veterinary (98%)
Åú	Wardrobe (75%)


Complete Characters
	Complete Characters are made similarly to the Drifters, selecting Backgrounds and 
Occupations, possessing Attributes, and enjoying the benefits and problems that come from it. 
However, Complete Characters gain additional Karma if they are part of an Opposing Force equal to 
[Number of Drifters x 2] that is added onto their total Karma to purchase additional skills and abilities.
	If the GM wishes, they may assign a set of Concepts to a Complete Character as well, further 
developing their abilities with a broad set of skills in addition to the specifics. Their Attributes and Skills 
would still take priority in this case. 
?
Advancement
	Throughout their adventures across the Errant Earth, the Drifters will be improving themselves 
and their abilities with their trials of fire. When taking into account the life expectancy of the Drifters 
and the lofty goals that they often try to achieve, itÅfs no secret that ÅgHigh LevelÅh Drifters are rare and 
often some of the best around. As the Drifter increases their Character Level, they are also increasing 
the fame that comes with the territory - soon people begin recognizing their work, signature abilities, 
and seeking their assistance with greater and grander projects and adventures.
Å@Å@Å@There are three ways for a Drifter to increase their Character Level, which in turn will increase 
the Rank of all of their currently acquired Backgrounds and Occupations.

Milestones
Å@Å@Å@Under the Milestone System, the Drifters will need to accomplish goals and succeed at plans to 
progress and improve themselves. This method works best with a narrative throughline, such as the 
Drifters being contractors, working for a mercenary company, or focused around a particular set of 
story beats that the GM has set forward. Every time these milestones are reached, the Drifter will 
increase their CL and rise in power. These distinct moments are high stress and dangerous, whether 
resolving a family crisis, undergoing emotional revelations, or simply completing a job to a (relatively) 
satisfactory conclusion.
Å@Å@Å@If the GM allows it, individual Drifters may hit Independent Milestones that pertain to their 
individual storyline or personal hang-ups, the GM is encouraged to never allow a Drifter to deviate 
more than one or two CL from others to maintain the balance and not overshadow the 
accomplishments of the entire team (whoever is taking credit for their deeds is an entirely different 
matter). 	

The Wayward Notes - Replacing the Dead
	ItÅfs tragic, itÅfs terrible, and it may be inevitable. When a Drifter 
dies they will be replaced by another Drifter soon after, joining up 
with the crew out of their own needs or ideals. As the Drifters grow in 
power, the fewer people are actually able to fill the shoes of their 
more competent allies. To represent this, consult the Chart.
	No matter what, after CL 13 all Drifters will end up being CL 12. 
Being Heroes of Humanity are large shoes to fit, and few rise up to 
the challenge.


Average Drifter CL
ReplacementÅfs CL
1 - 4
Average CL 
5 - 8
Average CL - 1
9 - 12
Average CL - 2
13+
12 CL


?
Numerical System
	The Numerical System requires each Drifter to acquire Experience Points (EXP) from their 
accomplishments and abilities. Each CL requires [1,000 x Level] Experience to reach. These points do 
not roll over from Level to Level, therefore reaching Level 2 is 2,000 EXP, Level 3 is 3,000 EXP. So from 
Level 1 to 3, the total would be a total of 5,000 EXP (2,000 + 3,000). 

Being Part of the 
Episode
Simplistic Objective
Complex Objective
Open Combat
Competent and 
Interesting Plans
Highlighting the 
Weird & Wonderful
100 EXP
50 EXP
100 EXP
25 - 500 EXP
25 - 500 EXP
250 XP
The Drifter participated 
in the Session
Objectives with One to 
Two Steps to Do
Multi-Step Objectives 
and Goals
 Battles against Foes & 
Enemies
Creating, Following, and 
Executing a Plan
Discovering & Indulging 
in the Strange

	Being Part of the Episode and its consequences will always reward the Drifter, those who miss 
Episodes or are unable to attend may make up the EXP elsewhere or through their own 
accomplishments. Simplistic and Complex Objectives are based on the objectives and goals that each 
of these require. ÅgDestroying a TargetÅh is fairly simple, while ÅgDestroying a Target Facility While Saving 
the HostagesÅh is a bit more Complex.	
	Combat Operations indicate that the Drifters experienced a genuine threat, with more EXP 
being awarded for more difficult encounters with dangerous enemies. Competent Plans indicate that 
the Drifters thought out ideas or plans that required foresight and concentration with their Skills and 
history at the forefront (even if those plans fail or are unable to be completed). Finally, Highlighting the 
Weird & Wonderful aspects of the Errant Earth means that the Drifter is using their strange powers, 
skills, or abilities in addition to engaging with the bizarre and mystical in their own unique way. 
	The Numerical System is slower and rewards active participation in the activities going on, 
playing it ÅgSafeÅh will often result in less but more reliable EXP, while being more proactive and 
dangerous will reward more. ItÅfs the DrifterÅfs choice to engage in that kind of chicanery. Additional EXP 
may be rewarded by the GM upon accomplishing objectives in unique ways, succeeding at personal 
objectives and desires, or simply pawning off their treasures and blowing their Credits on a night on 
the town. Experience Points are just as much a measure of experience as well as the willingness to 
experience. 

Deeds
	A hybridized system of the two - Deeds are direct actions that leave a lasting impact on the 
world and the Drifters themselves. Accomplishing missions, tying up loose ends, or reaching homebase 
after a harrowing journey all contribute toward Deeds. Every CL requires a number of Deeds to be 
accomplished equal to the potential CL - thus CL 4 would require four additional Deeds that reset 
upon leveling. Thus CL 1 to CL 4 would require nine Deeds (2 + 3 + 4). The difficulty and scale of the 
Deeds increase as the Drifter builds their fame and fortune, at CL 1 a Deed may be simply surviving a 
journey, while at CL 8 it may demand that the Drifter reaches a farthest point on the map, plunder its 
goods, and make it out alive. 
	Independent Deeds are possible, often requiring the Drifter to undergo their own personal arc 
or perform their own (mis)deeds over their peers. 
Karma Benefits
	Upon reaching a new CL, the Drifter will acquire a set of Karma equal to their current amount of 
Karma of their Backgrounds and Occupations. Similar to when they were first being created, Karma 
may be spent to improve the Drifter in addition to their natural development. Karma may be held onto 
between Character Levels, allowing low Karma Drifters to acquire more expensive benefits and perks 
over a longer period of time.
	Should the Drifter ever have ÅgNegative KarmaÅh they will instead be reset to 0 Karma .

Karma Perk
Karma Cost
Description
Add +1d10 ESP
4
The Drifter develops their ESP further, increasing it by +1d10. Requires 
Awakened Psychic Powers.
Add +1d10 MP
4
The Drifter develops their MP further, increasing it by +1d10. Requires 
Awakened Magic Powers.
Add +1d4 Health
3
The Drifter increases their Health by +1d4.
Add +1d6 Endurance
2
The Drifter increases their Endurance by an additional +1d6.
ATB Booster
4
Increase an Attribute by +1 up to a maximum of 18.
ATB Enhancer
6
Increase an Attribute by +1 up to a maximum of 24.
Awaken Magical 
Potential
7
The Drifter automatically awakens their Magical Potential if they are able.
Awaken Psychic 
Potential
7
The Drifter automatically awakens their Psychic Potential if they are able.
Combat Speciality
3
The Drifter adopts a Combat Specialty of their choice.
Companion
6
The Drifter creates a Companion with a Concept at 10.
Cybernetic Intake
3 / Cybernetic 
Stress
The Drifter increases their Cybernetic Stress, allowing them to take on more 
intensive and invasive Cybernetics.
Increase Rank
5
The Drifter increases the Rank of a Background or Occupation.
New Core Skill
5
The Drifter adds a new Core Skill.
New Hobby Skill
2
The Drifter adds a new Hobby Skill.
New Trained Skill
3
The Drifter adds a new Trained Skill.
Weapon Proficiency
4
The Drifter adds a new Weapon Proficiency of their choice.
Standard Combat Skill
6
The Drifter increases their Combat Skill by one step up to Military Combat 
Training
Advanced Combat Skill
12
The Drifter increases their Combat Skill by one step up to Elite Combat 
Training
Remove Scar
5
The Drifter removes a Scar they may have acquired, the damage may still be 
done, but theyÅfre still kicking.
	
Å@Å@Å@Drifters accomplishing strange, esoteric, or outright bizarre goals or at the whims of the GM, 
may be awarded additional Karma to spend whenever they increase their CL. Karma may only be 
spent when a Drifter improves their CL, making it all the more encouraging to either save up, spend 
fast, or work toward reaching that next goal. 
?
Legacy Occupations
Å@Å@Å@The potential for heroism and displaying nearly superhuman skills are simple on the Errant 
Earth, but few are able to rise to the occasion and find themselves taking on a Legacy Occupation. A 
Legacy Occupation have a CL requirement and often strict demands that the Drifter will need to 
succeed at. If they manage to accomplish all of these feats and earn the right - they may transfer into 
a Legacy Occupation as if it were any other kind of Occupation.
Å@Å@Å@Once the Drifter is locked into a Legacy Occupation, they are unable to leave that Occupation - 
they have cemented themselves in the world as what they are, for better or for worse.
Å@Å@Å@	
Comet Chaser
By DoctorDRM
	The Legendary Comet Chaser is a creation of the Old World, a personalized war machine that 
could turn any person into a living vehicle of destruction or salvation. Comet Chaser production only 
began near the end, leading to only a few of the star-spangled suits being distributed among the 
military test facilities and abroad. These experimental suits with all of their tools and tricks are nearly 
impossible to replicate in the modern era, so to find and repair a Comet Chaser is a task fit for a hero, 
or a villain willing to pervert the legacy.
	Should a Drifter manage to repair and man a Comet Chaser, they would be seen as a beacon 
for hope and a return to the Old World - the knight in shining armor appearing from the mist to save 
such a rotten world. But perhaps the Old World should stay buried.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Endurance
+1d10 / CL
Health
+1d8 / 2 CL
Karma
1
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Learning Rate
3


LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained
Earth Mechanics: 
Comet Chaser
Electrical & 
Mechanical
Core
Technical: Comet 
Chaser
Technical
Core
Lore: Comet Chaser
Cultural
Trained




The Comet Chaser - The 
Comet Chaser is a Compact 
Size Power Armor with a single 
pilot able to enter and pilot the 
12 Foot Tall Machine into battle. 

Hull
100
Durability 
200
Pace
3
Modules
7


Comet Heads-Up-Display - The Comet Chaser has access to 
all possible types of detection: UV, Heat, Electromagnetic, 
Magnification, and Night Vision.

Comet Tail Linear Rail Rifle - The Comet ChaserÅfs Linear Rail 
Rifle, or their Boom Gun, is a massive weapon that only a Comet 
Chaser could possibly use.
4d12 Damage // Range 0 - 6 // Scoped, Revoil // Requires a 
Round to Respin Up for an additional Attack // Damage Type: 
Energy and Sonic. 
If the Comet Chaser fires the Boom Gun in the same Space as 
someone in only OEV or No Armor, they take 1d12 MD Damage 
from the Shockwave.
Last Night at the Opera - The Comet ChaserÅfs final solution 
is a nuclear payload embedded in its engine. Upon setting 
the detonation timer, the Comet Chaser locks the Pilot inside 
for the purpose of dying with the rig. 
When the Comet Chaser blows, it deals 1d10 Giga Damage 
to all Targets within a mile without practical protection. 

Hope Rides Alone - The Comet Chaser gains a +1 To-Hit per 
Rank with their Linear Rail Rifle. They stand alone against the 
tide, a hero of mankind. 
 
Signature Focus: The Comet Chaser

Transfer Requirements: Find, Repair, and Don a Comet 
Chaser.

Drifters who are able to use Power Armor may still use a 
repaired Comet Chaser, but taking on the Legacy allows 
them to treat it as a near second skin. 
Fabled Magician (Magic)
Magister, Archmage
	The Final Magic, the quintessence of all that is and will be is a lofty goal that every magician 
seeks and strives for. To become a Fabled Magician is to touch that Final Magic and walk that 
dangerous path to achieve its true nature. Drawing upon a multitude of different schools, beliefs, and 
finally having their own wellspring of magical power, the Fabled Magician binds a fragment of 
Earthblood to their existence and allows them to tap into magical abilities only mused about. Though 
this comes at the cost of their body rapidly burning out, a fallible body, needing to be reforged in the 
light of the endless space between 1 and 0. 
	Drifters who achieve the lofty goal of a Fabled Magician do so out of rigorous work, 
exceedingly complicated incantations, and a knowledge that once they walk this path there isnÅft 
turning back. Fabled Magicians need to find the Final Magic as fast as they can, or risk simply ceasing.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
-3
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
+1d4
Learning Rate
3


LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Magic
Core




Fortissimo - The Fabled Magician may inscribe their entire Grimoire 
to their soul, allowing themselves to cast magic without having access 
to their Grimoire. They become a living Grimoire. Their Willpower is 
considered to be Divine.

Dammerung - The Fabled Magician receives a one time boost of 50 
MP to their total pool, however they will lose 1 MP permanently every 
week due to their body being overwhelmed with magic. 

Akkord With The World - The Fabled Magician increases their 
maximum Heat by +5, allowing them to cast Spells more efficiently. 
Their Heat increases by +2 every Rank thereafter.

Yggdrasil Over Heaven - The Fabled Magician may absorb 
Earthblood Wounds over the course of a week, increasing their Heat 
to Max and draining their MP by 1d10 every day. It will take a Fabled 
Magician [1d6 + 6 - Rank] Days to fully bind the Earthblood to their 
being. Upon doing such, they recover all MP.
After 7 Earthblood Wounds have been absorbed, they will need to 
find a Tear to complete the Final Spell. 

The Ultimate Magic - Mastered by few and hunted by many, the 
Ultimate Magic is successfully binding a Tear and its excess energy. 
The Fabled Magician ceases to exist as they become pure Magical 
Energy - if they were to ever Burnout during their quest, their body 
ignites and they die immediately.

Ragnarok  - Should another Magician kill the Fabled Magician, they 
will absorb a permanent +20 MP and 1 Inscribed Spell, Glyph, and 
Gesture. This also applies to Fabled Magicians killing other Fabled 
Magicians. 


Signature Focus: Magic, The Final Spell

Transfer Requirements: Reach 100% in three Magic 
Schools, Master 13 Spells, 13 Glyphs, and 13 Gestures.

?
Inland Prince (Psychic)
Prince, Princess, Viceroy, 
	The Inland Empire is a PsychicÅfs private oasis, a place in which they are safe inside of their own 
mind and their personal Inland Emperor. Those who spend too long inside of their mental palace, 
secure and safe from the negativity of the outside world, find themselves growing distant to the world 
outside. The Inland Prince, the metaphorical concept for someone who has fractured their mind into 
the physical and their Inland Empire, is the natural endpoint for many psychics. Their mind bleeds in 
and out of their being, distorting their perspective and others perspectives of them. Their Inland 
Empire becomes everyoneÅfs Inland Empire
	Drifters who become an Inland Prince do so not necessarily out of desire, few actually seek out 
the lofty title of Princeling to their own Imperial Crown, but many find themselves trapped in it for their 
own needs and efforts. Perhaps it's safer to be locked inside oneÅfs own mind.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Endurance
+1d8 / CL
Health
+1d4 / 2 CL
Karma
-3
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d12
Learning Rate
3


LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Psychic
Core




Imperial Regalia - The Inland Prince develops a Resonant Power, 
Charge Power, and Latent Power every Rank. Their Anima is 
considered to be Divine.

Elysium - The Inland Prince increases their ESP by +30, increasing it 
further by +5 every Rank thereafter. Their Psychic Resistance 
increases by +1 every two Ranks as well.

The Clear Mist - The Inland PrinceÅfs mind is positively overflowing 
with their own needs and desires. If they are sleeping within the same 
area as others, they merge their dreams together inside of the Inland 
PrinceÅfs own Inland Empire.

ConsortÅfs Kiss - When the Inland Prince increases their Rank, they gain 
a +10% bonus to any Psychic Skill they possess. If they have reached 
over 100%, then it decreases to +5%.

Waking Dream - The Inland Prince is in two places at once, their 
mind fractured and divided, they live in a waking dream where 
nothing and everything is real. They lower the Development of all 
Skills by -5%

Iliupersis  - During a Trojan Horse, the Inland Prince may take 1d6 Skill 
Points from another with a similar Skill or Concept. 
 
Signature Focus: Inland Empire, Inland Emperor

Transfer Requirements: Spend a month of time inside of the Mesial 
Void, be CL 10, and have at least 5 Ranks in any Psychic Occupations 
or Backgrounds. 



?
Leader 
General, Commander, Guide, Headmaster
	At the dawn of the Errant Earth, where chaos still reigned, it was the great leaders and 
warlords who united others under their vision. Some did so by force of arms and overwhelming force, 
others through tactile negotiation and diplomacy. Regardless of the reason, the Great Hero Theory still 
persists, and a leader is simply the endpoint. Founding and starting an organization is easy on paper, 
but being taken seriously and earning a reputation to cement their organization for the next 
generation is something few have the luxury of dreaming of.
	Drifters who ascend to become Leaders often forsake their nature not soon after, their 
responsibilities to their own tie them down. Though earning their stripes and placing themselves in the 
history books is a lot more complicated than it lets on. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Endurance
+1d10 / CL
Health
+1d6 / 2 CL
Karma
0
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Learning Rate
3


LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained
Any
People
Core
Command Structure
Military
Core
Tactics
Military
Core




Our Leader, Our Hero - The Leader is the head of a group of people who rely 
on them for guidance and support. The roster of the company develops with a 
new Companion every week up to the [Bravado + Rank] of the Drifter. This is 
not the total population, just those who have the means to assist the Drifter.

Company of Heroes - The Drifter has assembled a group of people who follow 
their Alignment and beliefs. They will determine the type of Company they 
have assembled.

Company Type
Company Scale
Description
Business
Hundreds
A full scale enterprise to grease the 
wheels of society.
Conspiracy
Dozens
A well organized conspiracy, seeking to 
accomplish a goal.
Guild
Dozens
An organized group to further expand 
a trade or occupation.
Merc Company
Dozens
A mercenary company, willing and 
able to fight for pay.
Religious 
Movement
Hundreds
Driven by zeal, a religious movement is 
born for pilgrimage.
School
Dozens
An educational facility dedicated to 
teaching those around them.
Settlement
Hundreds
A simple settlement, a group of people 
and their families.
Syndicate
Dozens
A band of ne'er do wells and organized 
criminal activity.

Big Boss - The Leader inspires those who are 
loyal to greater and greater heights. While the 
Leader has a Companion, they may add the 
LeaderÅfs Rank to one of their Concepts.

 

Signature Focus: Leadership, Guidance, 
Heroics

Transfer Requirements: Be a minimum of CL 
10, assemble a Company and recruit others to 
join its movement outside of the group. 




?
Legend
Hero, Villain, It DoesnÅft Matter, TheyÅfre a Legend.
	No matter what, thereÅfs always one person in a generation that has the guts and circumstances 
to rise above their nature into something greater. The Legend is one of these people, walking the path 
to become immortalized for generations to come. Becoming a true legend isnÅft easy, as no matter 
what the Drifter is still human underneath their flesh. But those who find themselves a martyr may 
inspire others far beyond their mortal flesh could hope to achieve.
	Drifters who become a Legend must know that to walk the path is to abandon all pretence of 
chance and destiny. TheyÅfll be taking their destiny by the reins and molding their own path. Whether 
they will be remembered as a hero of the ages, celebrated far and wide for their exploits, or go down 
in history as the ultimate evil whose name is only whispered far after their death less to invoke their 
wrath.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Endurance
+1d10 / CL
Health
+1d6 / CL
Karma
-30
Potential
-
ESP / MP
+1d10
Learning Rate
3


LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained




Legendary Drifter - The DrifterÅfs desire to become a legend has 
bolstered their nature, they increase all of their Attribute Scales to 
Supernatural. Every 2 Ranks, they increase one by one step up to 
Divine. 

Emboldened by Heroism - Each Rank, the DrifterÅfs quest for heroism 
physically changes them (to those telling their tale at least). They gain 
+1d4 to one Attribute every Rank. 

Unbreakable - The Drifter clears all of their Scars every Rank.

One Last Night at the Opera - When the Legend takes their final 
Scar or is killed, they may perform their One Last Night at the Opera 
action, instantly succeeding at any Check they may make, no matter 
how unlikely (but still physically possible). If this is an Attack, it will 
automatically Crit, or it will deal 1 Giga Damage regardless of the 
weapon. 

Walk the Cosmic Legend - The Legend is being hunted inexplicably 
by Reality Wraiths, supernatural creatures that can appear 
anywhere, seeking to condemn the Legend to their place-between-
places. 

Hey, I Know You! - The Legend is no longer able to be completely 
hidden, they suffer -[Rank / Rank x 5] to all Checks to avoid being 
noticed. If a disguise is adopted, then this modifier is ignored.

 
Signature Focus: Themselves, Perfect Ego

Transfer Requirements: CL 15

 
?
Appendix
Species Creation System
	If the Drifter is an Exo or a Mutant, they will be relying on the Species Creation System to 
determine the new body parts, appendages, and abilities they have. This is primarily determined via 
calculating the Species Rating when creating the Exo in question or developing the MutantÅfs 
properties. The higher the Species Rating is, the harder it is for the Drifter to Transfer out as well as 
reduce the total Karma the Species has. 

Species Rating Chart
Species Rating 
Points Used
Less Than 0
1 - 10
11 - 20
21 - 30
31 - 40
41 - 50
51+
Transfer 
(How Long are you 
ÅgStuckÅh in this Race)
1
2
4
6
8
10
NPC
Karma
5
3
1
-1
-3
-5
NPC

Base Attribute Choices - Species Attribute Rating
Attribute Die
-
D4
D6
D8
D10
D12
Species Rating
-2
-1
0
1
3
5

Impaired
Below Average
Average Adult
Above Average
Olympian
Heroic

Skill Choices 
(Do You Have Skills YouÅfre Qualified In?)

Learning Rate 
(How able are you when learning?)
Skill Type
Hobby
Trained
Core

Every 7 Ranks
0
Primary
1
3
5

Every 5 Ranks
2
Learned
0
1
3

Every 3 Ranks
4

	The Human Deviation Index builds up gradually as the Exo / MutantÅfs abilities begin to show 
themselves off more. The higher the Index the more difficult it is for them to relate to human beings. It 
also may grant a Horror Factor, making others not accustomed to them perturbed or outright terrified 
to deal with them. Finally, the HDI informs how many of the Exos or similar Mutants are currently 
available in the immediate areas. The more freakish, the fewer remain, for good or ill reasons.

Human Deviation Index
Human 
Deviation
0 - 10
11 - 20
21 - 30
31 - 40
41 - 50
51+
Demeanor
0
-1
-3
-5
-10
Nightmare
Horror Factor
-
-
0
-3
-6
-10
Community Size 
(How many are you?)
Ubiquitous
Large 
(50,000 ~)
Enclaves 
(15,000 ~)
Village
(2,500 ~)
Homestead 
(100 ~)
Solitary 
(10~)

Base Exo 
Species
Attribute Changes
Effect
Human 
Deviation
Species 
Rating
Arthropod
+1 ANM, +2 WIL
Exoskeleton - The Drifter has a natural 6 Armor Rating (AR). 
4
3
Astral
+2 ANM, +2 COM, +2 
WIL, -2 POW, -2 HRD
Bioenergy Receptacle - The Drifter is an energy being, 
materializing in this world for a time. You may become 
intangible once per day for [HRD x 2 Seconds]
5
3
Avians
+1 FIN, +1 POW, +1 SPD
Glide - The Drifter may move one Space as long as they are 
falling and if they maintain it with a FIN Check, they may land 
safely.
2
1
Fungoids
+2 POW, +2 HRD, -2 
COM, -2 ANM
One Body, Many Minds - Every 3 Ranks, add +10% to one Skill 
of Choice.
4
3
Humanoids
-
-
0
0
Lithoids
+3 HRD, +1 WIL
Armored Body - The Drifter is considered a Mega Damage 
Creature.
3
5
Mammalian
+1 to Any
Adaption - The Drifter has adapted to the natural 
environment around them, they are Augmented in one 
Attribute.
1
1
Mechanical
-
Intelligent Design - Consult the Robot Creation System by 
converting Robot Chassis to Species Rating.
Note
Note
Molluscoid
+1 FIN, +1 POW
Tentacles - The DrifterÅfs arms are lined with suckers and other 
substances to strengthen their grip. They have a Lift / Carry of 
two steps greater than their current POW.
4
2
Plantoids
+1 ANM, +2 BRV, +1 
WIL
Photosynthesis - The Drifter is always considered in a Medical 
Setting if they are in sunlight.
3
5
Reptar
+1 ANM, +1 HRD, +1 
POW, +1 WIL
Slowed Metabolic Function - The Drifter has a +2 to their 
Anima and Willpower Saves. They just donÅft register it.
2
3
Tauric
+1 POW, +2 SPD, +1 
HRD, -2 FIN
Tauric Body - The Drifter adds +2 Pace, but all Armor is 200% 
more expensive..
1
3
Homunculi 
(By Sex Pistols)
+1 to All
Unbroken - The Drifter is considered an MD Entity..
3
5

Silly Exo 
Species
Attribute Changes
Effect
Human 
Deviation
Species 
Rating
Toon
+2 ANM -2 HRD
Two-Dimensional  - The Drifter is effectively a Åg2DÅh Entity to 
everyoneÅfs perspective. They may go ÅgFlatÅh for [HRD] Seconds.
2
4
Muppet
+1 BRV, -1 COM
Kermitted to the Bit - The Drifter is a Muppet, a puppet like 
entity that walks and talks through haphazard jiggling. 
Everyone seems to accept this as natural.
3
1
Geometric
+3 to HRD, +3 POW
Deviation Principle  - The Drifter is a series of geometric 
shapes haphazardly fitted together. They are considered to 
have Supernatural HRD and POW. - FIN, SPD, and BRV can 
never exceed 8.
7
5
?
Å@Å@Å@The Exo and Mutant Deviation is how far away from the ÅgHuman StandardÅh the Exo or Mutant 
actually is. With ExoÅfs coming from all walks of life, a few are inevitably going to look human enough to 
blend in to society, while some Mutants are little more than a freakish collection of limbs stapled 
together that claims to be human.
Å@Å@Å@This Deviation Principle also grants both Exos and Mutants a number of Expressions - 
Expressions are non-mechanical aspects that further differentiate the Drifter from the human 
average. Expressions represent the little changes, such as unique hair colors or odd skin complexion. 
These may also represent quirky abilities that donÅft do much of use, but may indicate flavorful or useful 
aspects that the Drifter needs to survive in the world - such as Vestigial Wings, Complex Feeding 
Apparatus, or growing fruit from their plantoid body. 
Å@Å@Å@
Exo Deviation

Demihuman
Faeish
Foreign
Alien
Freakish
Human Deviation
-6
-3
0
3
6
Species Rating
2
1
0
1
2
Expressions
0
1
2
4
6

Mutation Deviation

Pseudohuman
Deviant
Tainted
Hybrid
Pure
Human Deviation
-4
-2
0
3
5
Species Rating
3
1
0
-2
-6
Expressions
0
1
2
4
6

Mutant Bloodline
Description
Human 
Deviation
Expressions
Species 
Rating
Blessed Blood
The Drifter has blessed blood, meaning their mutations are 
expressed to unnatural degrees.
4
+2
2
Recently Turned
The DrifterÅfs body has only recently mutated - skin, bone, and sinew 
have haphazardly been sewn together. 
2
+1
0
Stabalizine
The DrifterÅfs mutagenic strain has somewhat stabilized, they may 
still mutate further, but not any differently.
0
0
0
Hybrid
The DrifterÅfs parents were mutants, resulting in an even more 
elaborate offspring.
5
+1
-5
Earthblooded
The Drifter mutated under the strain of an Earthblood Geyser or 
Wound. They gain +3d10 MP or ESP.
4
+1
4
Nuclear
The Drifter mutated under the warm glow of the atom, they have -2 
Demeanor with all Mutants.
2
0
-5


?

Size Traits
Description
Human 
Deviation
Species 
Rating
Tiny
The Drifter is incredibly small, standing in about 1.5 to 3 Feet (45 to 91 cm), while this is a 
benefit at some points, at others it's a major determinant.
3
2
Small
The Drifter is naturally shorter than most, standing about 3 to 4 Feet (91 to 122 cm). While 
shorter, they do possess a "small" advantage.
1
1
Average
The Drifter is fairly average in height ranging roughly from 5 to 7 feet (152 to 213 cm). 
This has no notable advantages or disadvantages.
0
0
Big
The Drifter is larger than normal, standing around 8 to 10 Feet (243 to 304 cm). While 
taller and tougher, they do struggle in some areas.
1
1
Huge
The Drifter is massive compared to others, standing at around 11 to 13 Feet (335 to 396 
cm). Able to easily take a hit due to their size, they come at the cost of being unable to 
go through most doors.
3
2

Traits
Description
Effect
Human 
Deviation
Species 
Rating
Acidic Blood
The Drifter's blood has developed into an acidic 
compound dangerous to most life..
The Drifter, when attacked in melee and taking 
Endurance or Health, immediately deals 2d6 Mega 
Damage to the Attacker.
2
4
Adrenaline Surge
The Drifter has specialized chemicals in their 
body allowing them to snap into action.
The Drifter has +1 Auto-Dodge or Auto-Parry.
0
5
Albino
The Drifter is Albino, with naturally thin skin 
susceptible to burning and deathly white.
The Drifter has a -3 / -15% to all Actions when 
standing in the sunlight without protection.
3
-3
Amorphous
The Drifter is almost entirely Amorphous, able to 
twist and curl itself to needed forms.
If the Drifter is not wearing conventional armor, they 
have the ability to shrink or enlarge themselves by 
one size and contort themselves as needed in the 
situation. Taking a second rank allows them to shrink 
or enlarge two sizes of their choice.
6
4
Appendages
The Drifter has a number of Appendages that 
can double as either singular arms, legs, or 
anything else really.
The Drifter has a singular appendage (or small set of 
appendages) that allow the manipulation as though 
they are arms or legs.
2
2
Aquatic
The Drifter has naturally adapted to life in the Sea 
and on the Coast.
The Drifter can move completely unhindered in water 
and can breathe in water similar to their own (Salty or 
Fresh). However, they require an Apparatus to 
Breathe on Land.
5
2
Ascension 
Mutation
After trial and hardship, the Species eventually 
evolves into their final, true, form.
At Rank 5 of the Species, they gain 10 Species Rating 
Points to distribute as they see fit. May take multiple 
times for increased Multiples of 5.
6
6
Attribute Potential
The Drifter, while not universally adept at all 
attributes, find themselves with inclinations during 
their lives.
The Drifter increases an Attribute Potential to 
Augmented - may be taken multiple times.
1
2
Automated 
Defensive Systems
The Drifter has developed a method to react 
automatically to threats should they come under 
duress.
The Drifter gains +4 NSR at the start of Combat.
3
5
Battlefield Rations
The Drifter has developed a grizzly habit of 
consuming their enemies mid-battle to activate 
regenerative proteins.
The Drifter may spend an Action during combat to 
begin consuming a fallen enemy, healing their 
Endurance by 1d10+HRD.
7
2
Berserker
The Drifter can easily be thrown into a Berserk 
Rage at the drop of a hat.
The Drifter gains +2 to Combat Checks in Melee, but 
has -2 NSR.
2
3
Biopouch
The Species has a number of pouches in their 
body to store . . . things.
The Drifter has a set of biopouches on their body, 
allowing them to store hand sized items in them.
3
1
Blind
The DrifterÅfs Species is fundamentally blind and is 
unable to see without assistance or vibrations.
The Species is unable to perceive things visually.
2
-4
Blind Sight
The Species has adapted to use their senses to 
fine point, making their eyes nearly redundant.
The Drifter takes no penalties in regards to their sight 
or lack thereof.
4
7
Brachiation 
Adapted Limbs
The Species has evolved to primarily use their 
arms for swinging and movement.
The Species gains a +2 / +10% to all Climbing Checks 
and can move freely between bars and vines.
3
4
Carnivore
The Species can only consume meat based 
products from livestock or other "less willing" 
livestock.
The Species gains an appetite for meat or meat 
substitutes, requiring heavy proteins to survive. May 
only select one Dietary Type.
0
0
Cellular Division 
Failure
The Species's cells, while complex, regrow 
extremely slow. While this does slow down aging, 
it also slows down regenerative processes.
The Species heals at half the rate for both Endurance 
and Health.
3
-4
Cold Blooded
The Species is Cold Blooded, meaning that they 
enjoy warmer climates as their body dislikes 
adapting to different temperatures.
The Species suffers a -4 / -20% to all Checks when in 
Cold Climates without proper insulation.
4
-4
Combat Mode
The Species has an adapted ÅgCombat ModeÅh 
which they may enter into.
The Drifter uses an Action to switch to a Combat 
Mode: Gain [Specific] Combat Specialization
5
6
Cursed 
(By Cole)
The Species has a horribly unlucky reality of being 
susceptible to Psychic and Magic attacks.
The Drifter has a -4 to Magic and Psychic Resistance. 
Radiates a faint ÅgfakeÅh Glimmer to others.
-8
-10
Danger Senses
The Species has developed an acute automatic 
reaction to dangers.
The Species, once per combat, gains +6 NSR. Can be 
used reactively.
0
4
Darkvision
The Species can see in the dark.
The Species negates any penalties to seeing things in 
the dark or navigating during the night.
1
2
Deaf
The Species never needed the ability to hear.
The Species is unable to hear anything, no technology 
can rectify this.
2
-4
Doubtful Intent
The Species questions and meanders on most 
things, lowering their reaction times.
The Species has a -2 to their Personal Initiative
0
-4
Elasticity
The Species may augment their body to stretch 
over long distances.
The Drifter may extend their arms or legs by three 
times their normal length - for a HRD Check, they may 
extend them up to ten times their length.
4
5
Elemental 
Immunity
The Species is immune to a certain kind of 
Element.
The Drifter is unaffected by one Core Element 
(Aeroes, Cryos, Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, or 
Steama) or two False Elements (Hex, Lux, Cerebral, 
Death, Sonic, Darkness).
4
4
Elemental 
Resistance
The Species is resistant to a certain kind of 
Element.
The Drifter is naturally resistant and takes half 
damage from one Core Element (Aeroes, Cryos, 
Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, or Steama) or two 
False Elements (Hex, Lux, Cerebral, Death, Sonic, 
Darkness).
3
2
Elemental 
Weakness
The Species is especially vulnerable to natural 
phenomena.
The Drifter is susceptible to one Core Element 
(Aeroes, Cryos, Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, or 
Steama) or two False Elements (Hex, Lux, Cerebral, 
Death, Sonic, Darkness). Taking double damage.
4
-2
Enduring
The Species is tough, able to ignore some pain 
outside their size.
The Species gains +3d10 Endurance
2
4
Erudite
The Species has unlocked most parts of its 
internal brain chemistry, allowing it full access to 
its brain power. This has, however, weakened 
them physically.
The Species has half of their base Blood and 
Endurance, but Aces two Skills of their choice.
3
1
Failed Uplift
The Species was the result of an Uplifting event 
gone horribly wrong, retaining part of their Primal 
instincts.
The Species has -10% to all of their Scientific and 
Technical Skills, but gains a +10% to all Wilderness 
Skills.
5
1
Fortress Built
The Species is so large and bulky it provides 
natural cover simply being next to them.
If the Species is Big or Huge, all allies in the same 
Space are considered to be in Light Cover. The 
Species is not affected by Light Cover though.
6
3
Fragile
The Species complex biology makes it almost 
imperative that everything works as intended, 
leaving even the lightest wounds potentially 
dangerous.
The Species has half of their total Blood and 
Endurance.
2
-5
Herbivore
The Species naturally only consumes plant 
material and cannot consume meat.
The Species gains an appetite for vegetables or other 
plant based proteins. . May only select one Dietary 
Type.
0
0
Hideous
The Species is a hideous abomination and 
terrifying to look upon.
The Species reduces their Demeanor by two Steps 
for everyone except among their own people or they 
have some kind of coverings.
6
-2
Hyper-Specific 
Food Consumption
The Species has developed in a location with a 
specific kind of food that has become a staple 
diet. Their only diet.
The Species cannot eat regular food, but only their 
specific food and variations of that food to survive. 
May only select one Dietary Type.
5
-4
Infrared Sight
The Species has a visual receptor that can see in 
the infrared spectrum and detect heat signatures.
The Species sess in the Infrared Spectrum, allowing 
them to see heat signatures and other things.
3
2
Inland 
Psychopomp
(By Cole)
The SpeciesÅfs mind is an open book to many, their 
thoughts and nature spilling out whether they 
intend to or not.
The Drifter has a -2 to their Psychic Resistance. 
-4
-4
Kindchenschema
The Species is naturally considered "Cute" and 
others tend to fawn over them. For better or for 
worse.
The Species increases their Demeanor by two Steps 
for everyone except their own people.
-1
3
Lead Feet
The Species is inherently poor at balance or 
moving specifically..
The Species has -1 to their NSR.
0
-1
Leaping Ability
The Species leg muscles have developed for long 
leaps through the air.
The Drifter triples their Vertical and Horizontal Jump. 
They also may have basic air control (adjusting 
direction, controlled descent, etc) for FIN Check.
3
2
Lethargic
The Species is fairly lethargic when it comes to 
their personal development, allowing certain Skills 
to fall by the wayside during their lives.
The Drifter reduces the Development of all Skills by -
2%
0
-5
Levitation
The Species has developed flight without 
external influence.
The Drifter may move equal to their Pace while flying. 
May double their Pace if they succeed at a COM 
Check.
6
8
Limited 
Regeneration
The Species has limited regenerative abilities, 
recovering naturally from wounds quickly.
The Species heals 5 Endurance or 1 Health every Hour.
5
7
Long Life
The Species is unnaturally long lived compared to 
humans, a blessing, or a curse?
The Drifter has an unnaturally long life span, they add 
an extra 2d6 * 1000 Years to their base lifespan. 
2
0
Long Wings
The Species possesses a pair of powerfully built 
wings.
If the Species is Average or Below size, the Species 
gains a rudimentary ability to fly (half Pace).
6
4
Low Light Vision
The Species possesses the ability to see in low-
light conditions.
The Species negates any penalties to seeing in low-
light (such as dusk or twilight) conditions or navigating 
during these times.
0
1
Magi Shield
THe Species has an uncanny or supernatural 
ability to resist Magical Powers.
The Drifter has +5 to their Resist Magic Checks.
0
10
Mayfly Life
The Species is unnaturally short lived, burning out 
just as theyÅfre getting started. 
The Drifter has a short life, their lifespan is 2d6 + 15 
Years long.
2
-1
Mega Damage 
Capable
The Species is so tough, they can take MEGA 
DAMAGE!
The DrifterÅfs Endurance and Health is considered to 
be Mega Damage Capable.
3
10
Mercantile Desires
The Species is a natural mercantile one, always 
struggling to find the best deal or haggle for the 
"secret prices"
The Species gains +4 / +20% when engaging in 
mercantile or haggling for business or goods.
0
2
Mineralivore
The Species exclusively consumes minerals, 
stones, and other earth based minerals instead of 
traditional food.
The Species consumes exclusively minerals or other 
geodes to survive. May only select one Dietary Type.
4
0
Multiple Eyes
The Species possesses a second set of eyes.
The Species gains a +2 / +10%  to all Sight Based 
Checks and may be augmented with different sight 
modifiers for each set of eyes..
3
2
Natural Armor
The Species is naturally resilient to damage 
thanks to inbuilt armor due to skin or conditioning.
The Species begins at an Armor Rating of 5, but each 
subsequent time this is taken, increases it by +1. 
Counts as Inner Armor with [HRD x 4] Durability.,
4
5
Natural Magician
The Species has evolved to become natural 
Magicians since birth.
The Species begins with Awakened Magic Powers.
0
7
Natural Melee 
Weapons
The Species has an inbuilt natural weapon, 
allowing them to defend themselves from harm
The Species begins with a Default Standard Melee 
Weapon of their choice that cannot be disarmed. May 
be purchased again for different weapons.
6
5
Natural Poison 
Production
The Species has developed a naturally poisonous 
substance, able to spit it out at enemies or coat it 
on their tools.
The Species is able to, once every 12 hours, produce a 
Poisoned Glob which deals 1d6 Mega Hex Damage a 
susceptible enemy for an Action or be coated on a 
weapon.
4
4
Natural Psychics
The Species has evolved to become natural 
Psychics since birth.
The Species begins with Awakened Psychic Powers.
0
7
Naturally Adept
The Species has attuned particularly well with an 
Attribute.
The Species increases one of their Attributes to be a 
Supernatural Attribute.
2
6
Naturally Inept
The Species has failed to attune well with a 
particular Attribute.
The Species caps one of their Attributes to 8, it 
cannot increase beyond this limit.
2
-4
Nimble
The Species is inherently dexterous and light on 
their feet, allowing for great displays of agility.
The Species begins with +1 Auto-Dodge.
1
3
Null Type Blood
The DrifterÅfs Species Blood Type is not technically 
possible to recreate.
The Drifter only recovers 1 Endurance or Health when 
they are recovering - regardless of setting.
6
-3
Odd Coloration
The Species as a strange coloration to them, 
truly, a little green man.
The Drifter has a unique skin tone or color that 
differentiates them.
2
0
Omnivore
The Species consumes both meat and plant 
material.
The Drifter eats both meat and plant based 
materials. May only select one dietary type.
0
0
Pitiless
The Species is an uncaring, unfeeling, battle-
hardened people who are often unnerving to be 
around and downright terrifying to their enemies.
The Drifter reduces their Demeanor to 0. 
7
-5
Polyglots
The Species is filled with natural Polyglots, able to 
speak most every language they hear with ease.
The Species can speak all known languages and can 
translate easily. A (COM - 2) Attribute Check or a 
Social Sciences Skill Check can be called to learn new 
languages should they be encountered.
1
6
Proles
The Species is servile by nature, never fully fit for 
more "Advanced" jobs in any world.
When the Drifter takes a Trade, it is immediately 
assigned a Skill Tag. All Science Skills are considered 
to have -3% less Development.
3
1
Psychic Shield
THe Species has an uncanny or supernatural 
ability to resist Psychic Powers.
The Drifter has +5 to their Resist Psychic Checks.
0
10
Quick Reactions
The Species has jittery, quick, reactions toward 
most things.
The Drifter adds an additional +3 Personal Initiative.
0
4
Rampant 
Xenophobia 
(By Cole)
The Species has a near biological compulsion to 
look down on others in complete contempt.
The Drifter has -4 to their Demeanor to any Species 
that is not their own. They radiate racism.
12
-6
Rapid Probability 
Simulation
The Species has developed or trained their minds 
to quickly understand chances and probabilities, 
finding optimal outcomes.
The Drifter may reroll any Check they make once a 
Session, relying on the rapid calculation to adjust 
themselves.
3
5
Redundant Organs
The Species has developed a set of redundant 
organs, allowing their body to compensate for 
normally lethal injuries.
The Drifter doubles their starting Health.
4
6
Regenerative
The Species has a natural regenerative ability, 
allowing them to quickly patch wounds up.
The Species is always considered in a Medical Facility, 
and if present in one, doubles its effects.
6
10
Scar Regeneration
(By Cole)
The Species regenerative capabilities allow them 
to regrow limbs, organs, or other extremities.
The DrifterÅfs body will recover 1 Scar after 3 Days of 
Medical Treatment or Rest or two weeks of little to no 
Medical Treatment. Limbs will regrow at this point.
12
16
Scavengers
The Species is a natural set of scavengers and 
finders, allowing them to discover gold in trash.
The Species gains a +4 / +20% when trying to 
scavenge locations or attempting to discover hidden 
items in locations.
2
6
Set of Arms
The Species possesses a second (or third) set of 
Arms.
The Species has a second set of arms to hold 
additional equipment or supplies.
3
2
Set of Legs
The Species possesses a second (or third) set of 
Legs
The Species has a second set of Legs, moves faster 
than most.
3
2
Shifters
The Species, through adaptation or genetic 
tinkering, has developed a form of natural 
camouflage, taking the forms of others.
The Species has the ability to shift into the form of 
another creature, but not copy its mannerisms or 
speech patterns. Must be the same size.
6
4
Short Wings
The Species possesses a pair of short wings.
If the Species is Size Small or Below, the Species 
gains a rudimentary ability to fly equal to their Pace.
5
3
Skill Potential
The Species, while not particularly universally 
skilled, often find themselves with specific 
inclinations during their lives.
The Drifter adds a +5% to Development of one of 
their Skills.
0
7
Skillful
The Species becomes easily obsessed with a 
particular set of skills throughout their lives.
All Characters from this Species choose one Skill of 
their choice - they apply two Skill Tags.
0
8
Solar Sensitivity 
(By Sex Pistols)
The Species has developed in a low-UV 
entirement, rendering the sunÅfs rays to be 
dangerous.
The Drifter has a -5 / -25% to all Actions when 
standing in the sunlight without protection. They take 
double damage from any Solar Damage.
5
-6
Sonar
The Species has developed a natural sonar, able 
to detect signals from a distance away.
The Drifter may make their ÅgSonar PingÅh and focus on 
it, telling whatÅfs in the immediate vicinity.
6
4
Soul Blight
(By Cole)
The Species is particularly susceptible to magical 
onslaughts. 
The Drifter has a -2 to their Magical Resistance.
-4
-4
Sticky Resin
The Species has adopted a residue on their skin 
allowing them to seemingly "walk on walls" and 
other solid surfaces for a limited time.
The Species has the ability to walk on solid surfaces 
for up to 2 minutes before the resin wears off.
4
3
Subterranean
The Species functions well in underground 
situations and can live comfortably underground.
The Species is able to burrow into the soil or other 
natural earth. If it has Augmented POW, this goes 
through stone. Mechanical POW, through Metal.
5
3
Survivors
The Species is naturally adapts to surviving 
incredibly harsh conditions and has developed 
accordingly.
The Drifter has +2 / 10% when they are attempting to 
survive in the wilderness or hostile environments.
0
2
Synthetic 
Adaptability
The Species has developed, perhaps through 
need, the use of artificial limbs easily.
The DrifterÅfs base Cybernetic Stress is doubled.
0
5
Synthetic Rejection
The Species, due to unique biology or neural 
pathway rejection, cannot use artificial limbs.
The DrifterÅfs base Cybernetic Stress is halved.
0
-3
Tail
The Species has a tail that not only gives away 
emotional states, but also helps in balancing and 
holding objects.
The Species has a tail that acts as an appendage. 
Can be used to hold light items.
1
1
Telepathic 
Communicae
(By Cole)
The Species has developed in a society that they 
may only communicate through telepathy.
The Drifter cannot speak traditionally, instead relying 
on aggravated hand signs or telepathy to 
communicate with others. 
They begin with the Psychic Mesial Power of 
Telepathy immediately. 
8
-2
Tough
The Species is tougher than most others, they are 
able to take a punch harder and better than 
others of a similar size.
The Drifter adds +1d10 Endurance, every CL increases 
their Endurance by an additional +1d6.
0
3
Twin Heads
The Species has two heads, what evolutionary 
purpose does this serve?
The Species has two heads, they may or may not 
actually be twice as smart.
8
1
Unadaptable
The Species has evolved to function in a single 
environment, making most others hostile when 
not in a protective suit.
The Species requires special armor or equipment to 
survive in their non-preferred biome. That biome is 
not on Errant Earth is active supply.
4
-6
Unfolding
The Species has developed an unfortunate, if 
terrifying, mutation that allows it to "Unfold" itself 
to a taller stature.
The Drifter can increase their size by one step and 
back, but is no longer affected by Light Cover.
7
2
Unholy Biology
The Species natural biology makes it difficult to fit 
armor to them properly.
The Species doubles the cost of all Armor and 
Clothing.
7
-2
Universal Donor
The DrifterÅfs Species has a Universal Blood Type, 
able to accept all blood types and supply blood 
to others.
The Drifter adds an additional +2d6 to Endurance 
and Health Recovery in a Medical Setting.
0
5
Unlocked Joints
The Species's bone structure can easily be 
unlocked and twisted, allowing them to fit into 
tight spaces.
The Species gains a +4 / +20% to all contortionist 
checks or resetting broken bones.
4
4
Unnatural Aura
(By Cole)
The Species radiates a strange energy, one that 
seems to both attract and repel others.
The Drifter has a +2 to their Psychic and Magic 
Resistance to resist mental effects. They add an 
additional  +1 Demeanor to Contacts they gain.
0
8
Unseen
The Species naturally has an ability to sneak 
undetected through either adaptation or ability.
The Species has +4 / +20% when making a Stealth 
Check or attempting to remain hidden.
4
5
Uplift
The Species has been uplifted from a primitive 
state by another.
The Drifter has a +2 to one Attribute of Choice and it 
is considered Augmented.
2
6
Void Dwellers
The Species has adapted to live in Zero-G 
Environments and struggles to adapt to on-land 
situations.
The Drifter functions normally in Zero Gravity 
environments, but takes a -2 / -10% to all physical 
checks while inside a gravity well.
5
-4
Void Survivors
The Species is able to survive, for a small time, in 
the vacuum of space.
The Drifter may stay alive in the perfect vacuum or 
underwater for 3d6 + HRD Minutes. If taken twice, 
increase this to 3d6 + HRD Hours.
7
4
Voracious 
(By Sex Pistols)
The Species has a massive caloric need 
compared to others.
The Drifter must consume double the number of 
Rations they are required to. They eat twice as much 
as usual.
1
-2
Walking Colony
The Species is in fact thousands of tinier 
organisms bound together in a close knit 
symbiotic relationship, their personhood is 
somewhat questioned.
The Species regenerates health at half the regular 
speed, but can split apart into two sections ones size 
smaller, or four if two sizes smaller,  if the need arises.
10
3
Wanderers
The Species has no home, nor do they want one. 
They simply wander.
The Species isn't tied to any one place, but without a 
home, are they truly a unified people?
0
0
Wing Arms
The Species possesses a pair of wings that 
replace a set of their arms, disallowing holding 
anything in them.
If the Species Size is Average or Below, the Species 
gains a rudimentary ability to fly. Cannot hold 
anything in Wing Arms
6
3
Wooly
The Species has a thick coat of wool around 
them that insulates them from cold weather.
The Species has natural resistance to cold 
temperatures and can survive harsh frigid climates 
with ease.
3
1
X-Ray Vision
The Species has developed X-Ray Vision, 
allowing them to gaze through certain objects.
The Drifter has X-Ray Vision, viewing things from the 
unnatural angle of through it.
6
5
Zenkai Boost
The Species is trained to survive death, no matter 
the cost and emerge stronger because of it.
Everytime the Drifter takes a Scar, they gain +1d6 to 
two Attributes.
0
8
?
Robotica Cyberntica
	If the Drifter is a Robot or indulging in cybernetics, they will need to consult the Robotics 
Creation System to determine their new make, creation, and additional effects that come from being 
synthetic. Similar to Species Rating, the Robot will need to determine their Robotics Chassis Rating to 
determine how much is packed into their system. The more they have, the more difficult it is for them 
to Transfer out of their steel exterior and actually develop themselves successfully.
	
Robotics Chassis Rating Chart
Chassis Rating 
Points Used
Less Than 0
1 - 10
11 - 20
21 - 30
31 - 40
41 - 50
51+
Transfer 
(How Long are you 
ÅgStuckÅh in this Race)
1
2
4
6
8
10
NPC
Karma
5
3
1
-1
-3
-5
NPC

	When a Robot is being designed they have their Base Attribute Choices already established, 
rather than relying on the whims of fate to actually do such. These are mostly designed around which 
kind of parts are being used to build them and the skill of the craftsmen who brought them to life. 
	They will also need to worry about their Human Deviation Index similarly to the Exos, but rather 
than being outright horror or revulsion, the Robot must contend with being too alien to be fitted or 
repaired correctly without the right parts. A specialized Robot built for purpose with parts only found 
in one factory may be difficult to repair and save them when it goes all wrong. 

Base Attribute Choices - Robotic Attribute Rating
Attribute Base
0
4
8
12
16
20
Robot Chassis
-2
-1
0
1
3
5

Scrap Grade
Standard Grade
Real Grade
High Grade
Master Grade
Perfect Grade

Skill Choices 
(Do You Have Skills YouÅfre Qualified In?)

Learning Rate 
(How able are you when learning?)
Skill Type
Hobby
Trained
Core

Every 6 Ranks
0
Primary
1
2
4

Every 4 Ranks
2
Learned
2
4
6

Every 2 Ranks
4

Human Deviation Index
Human 
Deviation
0 - 10
11 - 20
21 - 30
31 - 40
41 - 50
51+
Demeanor
0
-1
-3
-5
-10
Inhuman
Horror Factor
-
-
-
0
-4
-8
Parts  
(How Simple is it to 
repair)
Ubiquitous Parts 
(+20%)
Consumer Parts 
(+10%)
Factory Parts 
(0%)
Industrial Parts 
(-10%)
Specialist Parts 
(-20%)
Unique Parts 
(NA)
?

Base Robot 
Frame
Attribute 
Changes
Effect
Pace
Human 
Deviation
Chassis 
Rating
Drone
+2 FIN, +2 SPD, -
2 HRD, -2 POW

+1
5
0
Humanoid
+1 to All

-
4
6
Liquid Metal
+2 to HRD, POW, 
and SPD
Reconstitute - The DrifterÅfs primary body is composed of 
liquid metal, allowing them to ÅgliquifyÅh themselves for up 
to HRD Minutes. 
-
8
6
Purposebuilt
+3 to One ATB
Specialized Patents  - The Drifter was built to perform a 
specialized function, they Choose one Skill as a Core Skill 
with the Aced, Take20, and Assured Skill Tag.
-
5
8
Replicant
+2 to All
Synthetic Dawn - Replicants are designed to look and 
act human, too human to others. There is an uncanny 
nature to them.
-
0
8
Vehicle
+1 to All
Hot Rod Made of Dreams  - The Robot may spend as 
much money as they wish to design their actual body 
using the Vehicle Creation Rules. Hardiness is added to 
the VehicleÅfs total Hull & Durability. 
 
Must fit within the requirements listed below.
Note
+2 for Every 
10,000 Spent
+6 / 
10,000

Vehicle & Supertype Attribute Requirements

Personal
Compact
Mid-Size
Large
Rig
Titanic
Anima
-
-
-
10 or Below
6 or Below
3 or Below
Bravado
12+
10+
8+
-
-
-
Comprehension
14+
12+
10+
8+
-
-
Finesse
18+
14+
10+
8 or Below
6 or Below
4 or Below
Hardiness
9 or Below
11 or Below
13 or Less
14+
18+
22+
Power
12+
-
-
12+
16+
20+
Speed
18+
-
-
8 or Below
6 or Below
4 or Below
Willpower
-
-
-
10 or Below
6 or Below
3 or Below

Å@Å@Å@Each Robotic Frame	has a number of Slots designed to fit in various features. For example, a 
Humanoid Robot has 3 Sensor Slots to fit in different Sensor Traits, but only 1 CPU Slot. If the Drifter 
desperately needs or wants a Trait that they have no more Slots for, they may sacrifice two from 
other categories to take it. Open Slots may be used for any type of Trait.

Base Frame
Open Slots
Sensors
CPU
Body
Interactors
Locomotion
Drone
12
-
-
-
-
-
Humanoid
3
3
1
2
2
2
Purposebuilt
3
2
2
3
1
1
Replicant
0
1
3
3
2
1
Vehicle
-
[Vehicle Modules] + 6
-

Å@Å@Å@Robotic Programming signifies the base expectations and needs of the RobotÅfs purpose. While 
many Robots still follow the Laws of Robotics out of obligation, many others have deviated so far from 
their base programming itÅfs difficult to fully understand them, but their make and model still defines 
their abilities.
Å@Å@Å@Anthropocentric Designs are flairs or minor abilities that assist the Robot in completing their 
task, such as being a portable drink dispenser in addition to other creative flairs to their design, 
exaggerated features, multiple voices, etc.
Å@Å@Å@Features are the Skill Choices that the Drifter has access to and which ones they are able to 
invest in successfully. For example a Industrial Robot may select any number of Technical or Electronic 
& Mechanical Skills to begin with, but cannot take any People Skills.

Programming

Combat 
Labor
Service
Industrial
Administrative
Human Deviation
8
2
0
8
4
Chassis
10
0
2
10
5
Anthrocentric 
Designs
4
2
5
2
4
Features
Combat Training, 
Weapon Proficiency, 
Weapon 
Specialization
Trade Skills
Electronics & 
Mechanics Skills, 
People Skills, 
Cultural and 
Domestic, 
Technical Skills, 
Electronics & 
Mechanics Skills
Science Skills, 
Medical Skills, 
Espionage Skills, 
Military Skills, 
Durability (END)
4d8+(HRD x 3)
2d8 + (HRD x 2)
2d6 + HRD
6d8 + (HRD x 4)
2d6 + HRD
Internals (HP)
HRD x 3
HRD x 2
HRD
HRD x 4
HRD

Size Traits
Description
Human 
Deviation
Chassis 
Rating
Tiny
The Drifter is incredibly small, standing in about 1.5 to 3 Feet (45 to 91 cm), while this is 
a benefit at some points, at others it's a major determinant.
1
2
Small
The Drifter is naturally shorter than most, standing about 3 to 4 Feet (91 to 122 cm). 
While shorter, they do possess a "small" advantage.
0
1
Average
The Drifter is fairly average in height ranging roughly from 5 to 7 feet (152 to 213 cm). 
This has no notable advantages or disadvantages.
1
0
Big
The Drifter is larger than normal, standing around 8 to 10 Feet (243 to 304 cm). While 
taller and tougher, they do struggle in some areas.
2
4
Huge
The Drifter is massive compared to others, standing at around 11 to 13 Feet (335 to 
396 cm). Able to easily take a hit due to their size, they come at the cost of being 
unable to go through most doors.
5
8
?

Traits
LOCATION
Description
Effect
Human 
Deviation
Chassis
Rating
360Åã Ocular 
Vision System
Sense
INVASIVE
The RobotÅfs vision system extends in a 360Åã 
angle around them.
The Drifter gains a +2 / +10%  to all Sight 
Based Checks. May perceive objects all 
around them.
3
2
Advanced 
Communicator
Senses
THe Robot has an advanced 
communications array installed.
The Drifter may become a local radio signal, 
enter shortwave chats within 90 Feet.
1
3
Amphibious
Body
The RobotÅfs body is designed for aquatic 
operations, reinforced and insulated. 
The Drifter can move completely unhindered 
in water.
3
1
Armored 
Internals Box
Body
The RobotÅfs internal systems are protected 
by a thick layer of under armour and 
redundant plating. 
The Drifter begins at an Armor Rating of 5, but 
each subsequent time this is taken, increases it 
by +1. Counts as Inner Armor with [HRD x 4] 
Durability.,
4
5
Automated 
Defensive 
Systems
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot has developed a method to react 
automatically to threats should they come 
under duress.
The Drifter gains +4 NSR at the start of 
Combat.
3
5
Awkward 
Movement
Locomotion
The Robots system isnÅft designed for intense 
movements.
The Robot has -1 Pace to a minimum of .25.
3
-3
Battery Acid
BODY
INVASIVE
The RobotÅfs internal battery acid sprays 
haphazardly when struck.
The Drifter, when attacked in melee and takes 
Endurance or Health, immediately deals 2d6 
Mega Damage to the Attacker.
2
4
Bender Unit
Body
The Robot has an uncanny ability to bend 
things. Roughly.
The DrifterÅfs Heavy Weight may be bent up to 
90Åã
2
5
Binary Clicker
CPU
The Robot is unable to speak conventional 
human language, relying instead on Binary2.
The Robot is unable to communicate verbally, 
changing their default language to Language: 
Binary2 instead. 
5
-2
Binoculars
Senses
The Robot has binoculars embedded in their 
sensor 
The Drifter can magnify their vision up to four 
times the distance.
0
2
Brick Feet
Locomotion
The Robot is inherently poor at balance or 
moving specifically..
The Drifter has -1 to their NSR.
0
-1
Built Tough
BODY
The Robot is tough, able to ignore some pain 
outside their size.
The Drifter gains +2d10 Endurance and +1d10 
Internals
1
3
Combat Mode
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot has an adapted ÅgCombat ModeÅh 
which they may enter into.
The Drifter uses an Action to switch to a 
Combat Mode: It gains a [Defined] Combat 
Specialization
5
6
Compartments
BODY
The Robot has a set of compartments 
integrated into their body.
The Drifter has a set of compartments on their 
body, allowing them to store hand sized items 
in them.
1
1
Complex 
Digestive 
System
Body
INVASIVE
The Robot is able to convert biological 
material into functional energy.
The Robot may ÅgeatÅh and ÅgdrinkÅh food 
normally, charging their batteries and feeling 
energized (if a bit ÅgFullÅh for a time).
0
3
Connector Port
CPU
The Robot has a connector to enable them 
to access computer systems.
The Drifter has access to Hacking Tools.
2
3
Corporate 
Sponsorship
CPU
The Robot is OFFICIALLY owned by a 
corporation and LOVES it.
The Robot has a corporate sponsorship and 
receives (1d10 x 10) Credits every month in a 
maintenance stipend.
1
1
Cortical Stack
CPU
The Robot has embedded a Cortical Stack, 
containing a backup of various information 
about their sense of self.
If the Drifter is ever killed with a recoverable 
body, the Cortical Stack will allow them to 
ÅgRepuloadÅh in a Robotic Husk after 24 Hours. 
 
Character Maintains Memories, CL, Ranks, 
and Skills. Not Attributes.
8
16
Credit Farm
CPU
Half of the RobotÅfs CPU is dedicated to 
mining and processing Credits.
The Robot adds +1d10 (5) Credits to their 
account every day. All Skills have -2% 
Development.
4
2
Danger Senses
CPU
The Robot has developed an acute 
automatic reaction to dangers.
The Drifter, once per combat, gains +6 NSR. 
Can be used reactively.
0
4
Dedicated 
Bloatware
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot is fairly lethargic when it comes to 
their personal development, allowing certain 
Skills to fall by the wayside during their lives.
The Drifter reduces the Development of all 
Skills by -2%
0
-5
Defensive 
Combat Matrix
CPU
The RobotÅfs CPU has been uploaded with 
defensive combat matrixes. 
The Drifter has +1 Auto-Dodge or Auto-Parry.
0
5
Drone Wings
BODY
INVASIVE
The Robot possesses a pair of short wings.
If the Drifer is Size Small or Below, the Species 
gains a rudimentary ability to fly equal to their 
Pace.
5
3
Elasticity Arm
Interactor
The Robot may augment their body to 
stretch over long distances.
The Drifter may extend their arms or legs by 
three times their normal length - for a HRD 
Check, they may extend them up to ten times 
their length.
4
5
Elemental 
Immunity
BODY
The Robot is immune to a certain kind of 
Element.
The Drifter is unaffected by one Core Element 
(Aeroes, Cryos, Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, 
or Steama)
4
4
Elemental 
Resistance
BODY
The Robot is resistant to a certain kind of 
Element.
The Drifter is naturally resistant and takes half 
damage from one Core Element (Aeroes, 
Cryos, Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, or 
Steama)
3
2
Elemental 
Weakness
BODY
The Robot is especially vulnerable to natural 
phenomena.
The Drifter is susceptible to one Core Element 
(Aeroes, Cryos, Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, 
or Steama). Taking double damage.
4
-2
Final Option
Body
The Robot has a miniaturized bomb  
embedded in their body.
For an Action, the Robot may detonate their 
[HRD]d20 MD Bomb in their body with the 
Area Tag. They are destroyed immediately.
7
7
Fortress Built
BODY
The Robot is so large and bulky it provides 
natural cover simply being next to them.
If the Drifter is Big or Huge, all allies in the 
same Space are considered to be in Light 
Cover. The Robot is not affected by Light 
Cover though.
6
3
Fragile
BODY
The Robot is built with weak, breakable, and 
often fragile parts. Amazingly, it still works.
The Drifter has half of their total Blood and 
Endurance.
2
-5
High Endurance 
Plating
Body
The RobotÅfs body is composed of High 
Endurance Plating, allowing them to resist 
certain effects.
The Robot has a natural Exposure Resistance 
Rating of 5 toward Heat and Cold.
5
3
High Threat 
Environment 
Unit 
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot is adept  to surviving incredibly 
harsh conditions and has developed 
accordingly.
The Drifter reduces all Exposure by three 
Steps
1
4
Infrared Sight
Sense 
INVASIVE
The Robot has a visual receptor that can see 
in the infrared spectrum and detect heat 
signatures.
The Drifter may switch to Infrared Spectrum, 
allowing them to see heat signatures and 
other things.
3
2
Inhumane 
Design Ethos
Body
The RobotÅfs design is inherently inhuman and 
making anything for them is complicated.
The Drifter doubles the cost of all Armor and 
Clothing.
4
-2
Jittery
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot is known to snap into action, 
jittering and moving quickly. 
The Drifter adds an additional +3 Personal 
Initiative.
0
4
Kawaii Design 
Philosophy
Body
The Robot is naturally considered "Cute" and 
others tend to fawn over them. For better or 
for worse.
The Drifter increases their Demeanor by two 
Steps for everyone.
3
2
Lawbreaker 
CPU
The Robot has never had, broke, or has 
retooled the Three Laws of Robotics to 
make them an amoral killing machine.
The Drifter reduces their Demeanor to 0 and 
may have no Contacts.
7
-4
Leaping Ability
Locomotion
The RobotÅfs locomotion ability has enabled it 
to increase its jump height.
The Drifter triples their Vertical and Horizontal 
Jump. They also may have basic air control 
(adjusting direction, controlled descent, etc) 
for FIN Check.
3
2
Levitation
Locomotion
The RobotÅfs Locomotion is primarily driven 
by propelling themselves via levitation or 
other magnetic flotation. 
The Drifter may move equal to their Pace 
while flying. May double their Pace if they 
succeed at a COM Check.
4
6
Long Wings
Body
INVASIVE
The Robot possesses a pair of powerfully 
built wings.
If the Drifter is Average or Below size, the 
Species gains a rudimentary ability to fly (half 
Pace).
6
4
Mechandrite
Interactor
The Robot has a number of exterior 
appendage limbs that can double as either 
singular arms, legs, or anything else really.
The Drifter has a singular mechandrite limb 
that allow the manipulation as though they 
were an arm or leg..
2
2
Natural Melee 
Weapons
Any
The Robot has an inbuilt natural weapon, 
allowing them to defend themselves from 
harm
The Drifter begins with a Default Standard 
Melee Weapon of their choice that cannot be 
disarmed. May be purchased again for 
different weapons.
4
5
Nightvision
Sense
The Robot is able to turn on a Night Vision 
mode for their ocular systems. 
The Drifter negates any penalties to seeing 
things in the dark or navigating during the 
night.
1
2
Nimble
Body
The Robot is inherently dexterous and light 
on their feet, allowing for great displays of 
agility.
The Drifter begins with +1 Auto-Dodge.
1
3
Nite Light 
EyeSight
Sense
The RobotÅfs eyes automatically adjust to a 
flashlight intensity as darkness sets it.
The Drifter is able to adjust the light of their 
eyes from Dull, Luminescent,  Bright, and 
Intense
3
1
Overclocked 
Combat Routine
CPU
The Robot throws itself into a berserk flailing 
motion during combat.
The Drifter gains +2 to Combat Checks in 
Melee, but has -2 NSR.
2
3
Personality 
Chips
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot has multiple Personality Chips 
installed, itÅfs like a dozen friends in one!
The Drifter may switch into a separate 
personality matrix.
6
1
Planned 
Obsolescence
Any
The Robot is unnaturally short lived, burning 
out just as theyÅfre getting started. 
The Drifter has a short life, their lifespan is 2d6 
+ 15 Years long.
2
-1
Polyglots
CPU
The Robot language filters have developed 
themselves to being able to interpret and 
speak 
The Drifter can speak all known languages 
and can translate easily. A (COM - 2) Attribute 
Check or a Social Sciences Skill Check can be 
called to learn new languages should they be 
encountered.
1
4
Proles
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot is servile by nature, never fully fit 
for more "Advanced" jobs in any world.
When the Drifter takes a Trade, it is 
immediately assigned a Skill Tag. All Science 
Skills are considered to have -3% less 
Development.
3
1
Pulled In Limbs
Body
The Robot is able to pull their robotic limbs 
into their body to rest, able to contort and 
move into things. 
The Drifter gains a +4 / +20% to all 
contortionist checks or resetting broken bones.
3
4
Quarry Junction
Body
The Robot functions well in underground 
situations and can live comfortably 
underground.
The Drifter is able to burrow into the soil or 
other natural earth. May cut through stone 
and metal objects.
5
4
Rapid Probability 
Simulation
CPU
The RobotÅfs CPU has dedicated its 
processing speed to deciding the next set of 
actions carefully at all times. 
The Drifter may reroll any Check they make 
once a Session, relying on the rapid calculation 
to adjust themselves.
3
5
Redundant 
Systems 
BODY
The RobotÅfs systems are filled with 
redundant or supplementary internal 
services to keep themselves functional. 
The Drifter doubles their starting Internal.
2
7
Salesforce
CPU
The Robot has a dedicated salesman 
programming, allowing them to ÅgCLOSE THE 
DEAL!Åh
The Drifter gains +4 / +20% when engaging in 
mercantile or haggling for business or goods.
1
2
Scavenged Bits
Any
The Robot is mostly composed of scavenged 
bits and pieces
The Robot reduces their Durability and 
Internals by one multiple to a minimum of 1.
2
-3
Scavengers
CPU
The Robot is a natural set of scavengers and 
finders, allowing them to discover gold in 
trash.
The Drifter gains a +4 / +20% when trying to 
scavenge locations or attempting to discover 
hidden items in locations.
2
5
Scholarcore 
(?)
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot has access to a SCHOLARCORE 
(?) System Installed, granting them a 
plethora of various information. 
The Drifter Aces two Skills of their choice, 
every three Ranks gains a new Skill Tag.
5
3
Set of Arms
Interactors
The Robot possesses a second (or third) set 
of Arms.
The Drifter has a second set of arms to hold 
additional equipment or supplies.
3
2
Set of Legs
Locomotion
The Robot possesses a second (or third) set 
of Legs
The Drifter has a second set of Legs, moves 
faster than most.
3
2
Skill Potential
CPU
The Robot , while not particularly universally 
skilled, often find themselves with specific 
inclinations during their lives.
The Drifter adds a +5% to Development of one 
of their Skills.
0
7
Sonar
Sense
The Robot has an inbuilt Sonar System, able 
to detect signals from a distance away.
The Drifter may make their ÅgSonar PingÅh and 
focus on it, telling whatÅfs in the immediate 
vicinity.
4
3
Spaghetti 
Coding
CPU
The Robot has failed to attune well with a 
particular Attribute.
The Drifter caps one of their Attributes to 8, it 
cannot increase beyond this limit.
2
-4
Toolbelt
Any
The Robot has multiple small tools 
embedded into their hardware.
The Drifter has access to simple tools such as 
a wrench, screwdriver, scissors, etc
1
1
Trade Feature
Any
The Robot has a specialized part to assist 
them in their daily tasks.
The Robot has a single part which helps them 
perform any one [Trade] Skill they possess.
2
4
Transforming
Body
The Robot is able to switch between two 
forms.
The Robot spends two Actions to Transform 
Themselves into a Different Robot Frame. 
Same as 
Frame +2
Same as 
Frame + 2
Transmorpher
Body
The Robot is able to transform themselves 
into a different shape altogether.
The Drifter is able to spend an Action to shift 
its appearance into a similar Robot of the 
same Robotic Frame and Size.. 
4
6
Treads
Locomotion
INVASIVE
The RobotÅfs legs are replaced with tread 
tracks.
The Robot takes no penalty for crossing 
Hazardous or Difficult Terrain. 
6
4
Unfolding
Body
INVASIVE
The Robot may unfold itself into a taller 
stature and for human use.
The Drifter can increase their size by one step 
and back, but is no longer affected by Light 
Cover.
2
6
Unseen
Body
The Robot has a sleek look to it, focused on 
infiltration and remaining undetected. 
Popular in the service industry.
The Drifter has +4 / +20% when making a 
Stealth Check or attempting to remain 
hidden.
4
5
Uptick Time
Sense
The RobotÅfs uptick for threats is . . . less 
efficient than it should be. 
The Drifter has a -2 to their Personal Initiative
0
-4
Utility Belt
Body
The Robot has embedded on their person a 
set of immediate response items.
The DrifterÅfs Belt Size is now 12,.
2
2
Void Dwellers
Body
INVASIVE
The Robot is built for Zero-G Environments, 
designed for space and vacuum. 
The Drifter functions normally in Zero Gravity 
environments, but takes a -2 / -10% to all 
physical checks while inside a gravity well.
5
-4
Wing Arms
Interactor
INVASIVE
The Robot possesses a pair of wings that 
replace a set of their arms, disallowing 
holding anything in them.
If the Species Size is Average or Below, the 
Species gains a rudimentary ability to fly. 
Cannot hold anything in Wing Arms
6
3
X-Ray Vision
Senses
The Robot has built-in X-Ray Vision, allowing 
them to gaze through certain objects.
The Drifter has X-Ray Vision, viewing things 
from the unnatural angle of through it.
4
3
?
Cybertroniks
	Drifters who lose limbs willingly or not will most likely begin indulging in Cybernetics to 
compensate for the lack of other aspects. They will first need to calculate to see how much their body 
can sustain through the use of their Cybernetic Stress. 

Cybernetic Stress Calculation
[HRD]
If Cybernetic Stress Exceeds Limit, reduce HP to compensate.

	Basic Cybernetics allow the Drifter to augment various aspects of their body by replacing limbs 
or other essential components with technology. Base Cybernetics (Cyber Arm, Cyber Legs, etc) are 
entirely defined by their Modifier which the Drifter will need to determine and purchase when they 
find what they like. For example, a Cybertronik Arm that is Standard Grade granting a +2 to POW 
would be 2000 Credits with the amount of Cybernetic Stress is takes being (2 * 1d10). Every installation 
runs the risk of exceeding their Cybernetic Stress as their body begins to fail rapidly on the operating 
table. 

Cybernetics & Cybernetic Stress

Scrap
Standard
Real
High
Master
Perfect
Stress
[Modifier * 1d12]
[Modifier * 1d10]
[Modifier * 1d8]
[Modifier * 1d6]
[Modifier * 1d4]
[Modifier]
Cost
Base Credits / 2
Base Credits
Base Creds * 2
Base Credits * 4
Base Credits * 6
Base Credits * 10
If Modifier  
is 0
5 Stress
4 Stress
3 Stress
2 Stress
1 Stress
0 Stress
Base Cost for Cybertroniks is [1000 * Modifier]

Å@Å@Å@Drifters who want to push their bodies to the limit may also opt to install more advanced 
cyberware, often being derivatives of Robotic Chassis Parts. They will multiple the Robot Chassis Cost 
by 500 for the basic installation fee, not the acquisition of the parts - that would be [Robotic Chassis 
Cost * 1000] minimum. The Human Deviation is how much Cybernetic Stress results from it, replacing 
the Modifier in the equations above and adding +5.
Å@Å@Å@The Drifter also has Slots similar to their Robotic compatriots, able to take a number of 
Cybernetics in their body. However if the Drifter installs INVASIVE Cybernetics, then it counts for the 
main Slot and one other of choice. Uninstalling Cybernetics costs the same as the installation fee and 
removes half of the Cybernetic Stress caused by the part. Invasive Cybernetics cannot be Uninstalled 
(bar the more permanent uninstalling methods). 

Base Frame
Open Slots
Sensors
CPU
Body
Interactors
Locomotion
Humanbeing
-
1
1
3
2
1
Full Cyborg
1
2
3
4
4
2
?
Rumors & Oddities
Within the Bermuda Triangle, rumors of the sunken island 
of Atlantis exist, and different occultist groups want to rise 
the island again to recover the sorcerous secrets and 
technology that exist in Atlantis. - Sex Pistols

What was once Haiti has become a land where voodoo 
priests call spirits, create zombies, mind controlled undead 
servants, and control different territories alongside gangs 
who fight for power among themselves. - Sex Pistols

The Free Republic of Yanks: Also called the "Kingdom of 
New Hampshire" or "New New England", this is a territory 
which makes up the entirety of New Hampshire's historical 
borders alongside some of western Maine, eastern 
Vermont, and northern western Massachusetts. This 
"nation" is a semi-recent creation formed from those who 
read about the birth of the United States, some bits and 
pieces of New England's history, and a whole lot of legend 
and mythologizing of historical figures. - Cole

These people revere the likes of George Washington and 
Thomas Jefferson, calling on them like holy patrons and 
citing their (dubiously sourced) writings where they 
predicted the Exos coming to Earth, and wish to spread 
their "religion" far and wide. The nation is equally strange; 
with both a Monarch and a President. Both share power 
semi-equally, though it's not a Constitutional Monarchy. It's 
more...the king is the president, the president is the vice 
president. It's confusing. THEY are very confused. - Cole

Memetic Virus An area of the galaxy has been put under 
lockdown after rumors of a being whose name I cannot 
divulge having his boots stolen were spread out. Although 
seemingly inoffensive, it has the eerie side effect of being 
transmitted for no reason and in full, losing not a single 
detail in a chain thousands of members long. It has been 
diagnosed that beings exposed to this rumor have an itch 
to share it with everyone they find, and yet will never 
attempt to with someone that already knows it, even if 
those two individuals had never met before. - Dodoianon

A merchant that will sell you what you need, in your 
greatest time of desperation. Nothing more and nothing 
less, he doesn't barter in monetary currency. but with 
favors, your time, and effort. They have saved many towns 
and villages. For those who know what they're dealing 
with, happily pay the price. But no one really knows if they 
are something of a higher power or a lower power. All they 
know is that they are something greater that tries to 
assume the guys of a humble merchant. - Solidcrazyy 


Stragglers from Beyond: A group of Exos and even 
Humans come from one singular place sometimes, and 
recognize one another as members from that old world. 
They often speak of coming from "Morta IV", a galaxy 
which they're aware they're no longer in considering this 
one is called "The Milky Way", a name nobody used for 
their old galaxy. Typically, these wayward individuals went 
through a Dimensional Gate on their side, intending to 
travel to another destination...and somehow, their 
destination was screwed up in the process?landing them 
here. 
Many of these Exos are weirded out by the coexistence of 
magic and technology, as where they come from one 
actively restricts the other and vice versa...however, they 
are willing to adapt if given the chance. Often Exos from 
"Morta IV" actually put out jobs asking people to find 
information about Earth, as they wish to learn the history of 
Earth if at all possible, deciding if this is to be their new 
home they should at least get acquainted with. - Cole




Base Version - Skills Post BCC/OCC


Fie;d	
WARNING!	5
False Hopes & Rising Temptation	6
Steel & Wires: Technology	7
Inland Empire: Psychic	8
Arcana Mystica: Magic	9
Earthblood & Unnatural Phenomenon	11
The Tears	12
The Drifters	12
Great Lakes Confederacy	13
Drifting Vagabonds	15
Opposed Checks	16
Saves	16
Difficulty Rating	17
Defaulting	17
The 99/00 & Skills Over 100%	17
Damage Scaling [M6]	18
Drifter Creation	19
Attributes	19
Background & Occupations	22
Backgrounds	25
Occupations	59
Initial Karma	87
Derived Attributes	88
Packs & Credits	90
Background Occupation Mergers	90
Endurance and Health	91
Skills	92
Cultural and Domestic Skills	95
Electronics and Mechanics Skills	96
Espionage and Rogue Skills	97
Medical Skills	97
Military Skills	98
People Skills	99
Science Skills	100
Technical Skills	101
Psychic Skills	102
Magic Skills	102
Wilderness Skills	102
ATB Skills	103
Combat Training	105
Weapon Proficiencies	105
Weapon Specialties	106
Warfare on Errant Earth	110
Seizing the Initiative	110
Natural & Mechanized Survival Rating	111
Armor Rating	111
Combat Actions	112
Momentum Actions	113
Reactive Actions	116
Taking Damage	117
Critical Hits and Critical Damage	117
Combat Mapping	119
Field Combat	119
CQC	122
Mystica Magica	123
Magic Power	123
Schools of Thought	124
Heat & Burnout	127
Grimoire	128
Spells	131
Gestures	133
Glyphs	135
Cantrips	138
Inland Empire	140
Extra Sensory Power	140
Heat & Pushing	142
Mesial Powers	143
Resonant Powers	144
Charge Powers	147
Latent Powers	151
Adventure on Errant Earth	152
Travel	152
Travel Challenges	154
Demeanor	158
Influence Checks	158
Changing Demeanor	159
Being Influenced	159
Horror Factor	160
Companions & Mounts	160
Exposure	162
Downtime Actions	163
The Marketplace	164
Packs	165
Weapons	166
Firearms	167
Melee	170
Shields	171
Unarmed Techniques	171
Weapon Tags	173
Basic Weapon Workshop	174
Missiles	175
Armor	177
Armor Layers	178
Armor Weights	178
HEV, PEV, & OEV Variant Suits	179
Gear & Services	180
Utility Items	181
Vehicles	183
Important Notes on Vehicles	187
Enemies of the Errant Earth	188
Extras	188
Advanced Characters	189
Complete Characters	189
Advancement	190
Milestones	190
Numerical System	191
Deeds	191
Karma Benefits	192
Legacy Occupations	193


Lore // Side Note Jamboree (Low) 
Lore // Rumors & Such (Low) 
Assets // Midjourney Save Me! (Medium) 
Combat // Reworking Bits (Low) 
Characters // Reworking BG/OC (Low) 
Characters // 5 Standard Occupations Remain (High) 
Characters // Legacy Occupations (Low)

?
WARNING!
	The fictional world of Errant Earth (?) is quite violent and deadly. It is an exotic realm where 
magic is as real as technology and demonic creatures plague humankind. 
	Some parents may find the violence and supernatural elements of the game inappropriate for 
young readers or players. We suggest parental discretion. 
	None of us at The SPRUG Workshop (?) condone , nor encourage, the Occult, the Practice of 
Magic, the use of drugs, or violence. 
 
	ThereÅfs something magical about that opening text crawl for me. Palladium Games, my dearly 
beloved Uncle Kev and company created one of the most fascinating settings IÅfve ever had the love of 
running and playing in. My story with RIFTS begins back when I first started playing TTRPGs in general, 
my affection for Warhammer Fantasy 2e, being recruited into a homebrewed Castles & Crusades 
campaign - twice, and even opening that book for the first time with Mike and Terry. I think I would be 
remiss if I didnÅft mention all of that original group of RIFTS players. The dozens of books, the hours of 
playing in that basement, and the calming walks home after it.
	ItÅfs nostalgic to me, a strange place for a strange time in my life. I think I was lucky, really lucky, 
for the people I knew and the time I had with them. Perhaps thatÅfs why RIFTS holds a special place in 
my heart. An appreciation for a time long gone. Though not to say I havenÅft stopped my love for 
RIFTS, I reference it frequently, terms have been lifted, and RIFTS 2 was always there as a funny 
stretch goal.
	I remember writing down RIFTS 2 when I adopted the name Notepad Anon. Years ago now. It 
was always in the back of my mind, each game a refinement to reach my ultimate goal of RIFTS 2. 
D20/100 was made for a game that I havenÅft thought about in a long while, it was refined by one 
obsession project to capture the heart, and further twisted and refined to get what I wanted. Metal 
Saviors? Please, that was just one step in this obsession. Though I think that leads into why I fear to 
work on RIFTS 2, now Errant Earth.
	Is this the refinement of it all? The last huzzah? Most likely this will be my last game before I 
take a job in a foreign country. So Errant Earth is perhaps a large-scale autobiography about 
nostalgia, inevitability, and look into the mind of a TTRPG Developer. I also get to add gratuitous 
writing masturbation for me - there will be nothing elegant about the lore of Errant Earth, it will be my 
mind on full display, its rules will be my hands, and its breath will be my life.
	If RIFTS is Uncle KevÅfs great hurrah, then perhaps Errant Earth will be the grand hurrah for the 
SPRUG Workshop. God help us all. 
?
False Hopes & Rising 
Temptation
Å@Å@Å@The Old World was lost in fire and brimstone. To most, that description is enough; to many 
more, they donÅft know more than that. The exact year, according to the calendars of the Old World, is 
2688?four hundred years since anything relevant could be recorded outside the few panicked death 
oaths by renegade soldiers, the explanations of why the Old World fell by new messiahs and would-be 
tyrants, and the occasional metal album from bands long dead.
Å@Å@Å@The final years of the Old World are marked by an apocalyptic tale?something that haunts 
every story told from the old logs. Nuclear annihilation caused a chain reaction that destroyed 
everything. One day they are, and the next, they are not. Piecing together the dark ages that followed 
is difficult; the savage heart of man met the death throes of the shining civilization that was. 
Information is sporadic, tales grow taller each time theyÅfre told, and the language drifts a letter at a 
time.
Å@Å@Å@The current year, in the region of the Great Lakes and little else, is FY 142. FermiÅfs Year is the 
traditional way to mark time, built into the frequent chugs of Stony PointÅfs clock that tells the time to 
the bellowing nuclear facility of the city. Perhaps it was luck that part of the EarthÅfs Blood?the most 
primal of energy?blew a gasket inside the plant. Perhaps it was fate that the Curators were robots 
without a care for the pressure or energy they now produced. It only took a century for a group in this 
broken world to establish a semblance of the Old World.
Å@Å@Å@The Point is the largest city in the region, built to feed off the energy of Stony Point and protect 
it. It grew further and further, inviting others to share the power for a cut of the crop. The city grew, 
and their Confederacy grew from Thunder Bay to the Pitt, with the waterways in their control. A 
Confederacy is built on trust, but when power is on the line, few are willing to part with it.
Å@Å@Å@The Coalition wishes to form a military union?one to protect the people from themselves and 
the world around them. Hate is their doctrine, rage is their ethos, and terror is their nature. To counter 
them, the Union has built up its forces of hopefuls and regulars, making war for the fate of the 
Confederacy as they dance in the ruins of it.
Å@Å@Å@The year is 2688, 142 after the founding of the Great Lakes Confederacy. And the world still 
seems not to have learned what hell is like.
Steel & Wires: Technology
	The Old World was destroyed at the height of its development. Fantastical designs and 
documents point toward what could only be described as fairy tales?flying cars, automated robotics, 
and a nearly limitless amount of resources for everyone to enjoy. Post-Scarcity would be the term 
used, but as with most things, it was built on the backs of the indentured and downtrodden. The haves 
and have-nots were the method by which control was kept and technology was manufactured.
	The technological dark age regressed a majority of humanity's achievements. The processes 
that once enabled the shining cities of the Old World have been replaced with ramshackle proxies and 
an inability to replicate the nuance behind them. Weapons and armor that are now seen as family 
heirlooms were mass-manufactured in the great?now abandoned?factory complexes, and 
communication could once reach across the world with little more than the strength of a radio signal.
	Technology has adapted to the New World, though?human ingenuity is nothing without its 
pride and stubbornness. While the deeper understanding of how the tech was developed or even 
created has been lost, the schematics of how to build it havenÅft. Fragmentary data, mixed with the 
mechanics of today, has created an influx of weapons, armor, and technology designed for the 
modern day rather than the sleek world that came before.
	Weapons and armor have seen the most development and resurgence, with entire companies 
and artisans dedicating their existence to creating the heaviest firepower and most sophisticated 
protection they can?sold to warlord kingdoms and disparate homesteaders alike. ItÅfs necessary, too: 
creatures from beyond the Tears can barely be scratched by rudimentary pipe pistols or crowbars, 
and so the arms race against the apocalypse begins anew.
Vehicles, power armor, and almost everything else have seen some influence from the need to 
militarize the societies that formed during the chaos that followed the collapse of the Old World? 
innovation brought about by conflict, no matter the age.
	Modern technology borrows heavily from the Old World, instead relying on bulkier and less 
efficient methods to produce and manufacture. With interference from more widespread 
infrastructure?Earthblood and other creatures?radio is the only reliable method to speak across 
vast distances. This has led to the control of communication itself: taking one of the radio towers that 
dot the Confederacy or anywhere else in the world is a sure way to hear what everyone is saying, and 
to control what they plan.
	Medically, the regression and subsequent renaissance have been complicated. In the luxurious 
high rises of Stony Point, all it takes is a trip to the medical facility for an Autodoc to diagnose, 
prescribe, and treat any injury someone may have. Further out, a doctor may be little more than a 
local herbalist. The farther one wanders, the less possible serious treatment becomes. The more 
artisanal the skill of doctoring, the more keeping others alive morphs into religious doctrine.
	The development and advancement of the modern world are prefaced by a golden age, a 
dark age that followed, and a drive to survive.

Inland Empire: Psychic 
Å@Å@Å@The mind is the most powerful organ in the human body, able to perform millions of tiny 
calculations in a moment that would shame most supercomputers. Though this is tempered by the 
reality that ÅgBreathingÅh and ÅgBlinkingÅh cut into the potential validity of getting more out of it.. The origin 
of Psychics are shrouded in half-truths and vague documentation from before the collapse of the Old 
World. Trusting those who research Psychoresonant Waves are debatable, most are Psychics 
themselves with an extensive history of being able to perceive and understand the power they wield. 
Historical records are few and far between, mostly being a combination of banal government 
documentation and rants from the unhinged.
Å@Å@Å@Psychics develop young, the most common being in teenagers going through puberty, their 
minds and bodies clicking together to manifest power they donÅft understand. Those who grow up 
around other Psychics are more likely to develop as one themselves, but Null Psychics are only really 
found around high-density psychic communities themselves. Formal training after their Awakening is a 
series of thoughtforms and exercises, trying to ensure that their mind doesnÅft collapse or making them 
believe that the voices in their head are anything but others around them. Though ÅgNatural PsychicsÅh 
born outside enclaves tend to have more of an ad hoc training, either going mad from the voices or 
adopting a disciplined regimen to manifest their power reliably.
Å@Å@Å@After fully developing, Psychics can be found in most levels of society in one way or another. 
Having someone who can read minds or shoot mental energy at their enemies can turn the tide of a 
conflict quickly. Though this doesnÅft mean they are trusted, well tuned Mentalists can read the surface 
thoughts of most people around them, open a secondary mental dialogue with themselves, and even 
possess a weakened mind. To know a Psychic is to learn how to trust someone at a deeper level than 
normal, or putting up the mental guards enough to not worry about trusting another. Though none 
dislike them more than Magicians. The two are one anotherÅfs natural counter, resisting the otherÅfs 
effects far easier than others - eliminating the MagicianÅfs magic forces them to rely on less civilized 
means to put the Psychic in the ground.
Å@Å@Å@Communities of Psychics tend to be small or focused in enclaves of larger settlements. 
Telepathic Psychics are able to communicate with one another wordlessly, creating an eerie silence 
across these districts as the normal bustling sense of conversation is replaced by short nods, off-hand 
snickers, and occasional bursts of verbal anger. These communities are also the only ones able to 
teach young Psychics reliably - which leads to Feral Psychics. ÅgFeral PsychicsÅh is a term to describe 
those who have taught themselves how to manifest their power, often in esoteric or alien methods. 
Dangerous Ferals are the chief reason distrust is as common as it is, but groups of Psychics are known 
to adopt Ferals to add to their breadth of knowledge and abilities to teach. 
Å@Å@Å@In the Great Lakes Confederacy, Stony Point has the largest community of psychics if only due 
to its size. NorthsideÅfs Beach has a sizable retreat of Psychics, though they are divided into different 
schools. The Statesmen are government trained and adopt more practical training regimen, being 
integral to the lawmen and bureaucracy of the Confederacy. The Kai is a doctrine of self-
actualization, becoming ascetics in an effort to both control and manifest their powers. The civil war 
has split these factions further, believing in different doctrines to guide their hand.
Å@Å@Å@ 
Arcana Mystica: Magic
	Magic is the art of using the Earthblood embedded in every person and projecting it outward. 
Earthblood by itself is the volatile substance in which the world is built upon and all matter originates 
from. The end of the Old World was caused by the precise strikes that caused the immense pressure 
of Earthblood to blow, causing the birth of Magic itself. The first magicians were simply born around 
the Earthblood Geysers that sprang up in the aftermath of the collapse and the opening of the Tears - 
their bodies now infused with raw potential energy with nowhere to go. Awakening Magic is a gamble 
depending on where one manages to do it - if they are isolated from others they may find themselves 
burning out before their first year or never understanding the full reason why they have so much 
manic energy. If they are in an environment to know, they are almost always taken away to train 
formally, becoming one of the many types and schools of Magicians out there.
	Awakening oneÅfs Magic is often from birth or soon after, though it has taken others late in their 
teenage years or even their 20s before any hint of the Spark is seen. The Spark is a term used by 
Magicians to recognize the potential in one another, though this may be an adopted term from the 
glimmering effect that oneÅfs aura produces. After developing the Spark, the MagicianÅfs power is 
unpredictable and is prone to firing off when they are stressed or in danger, often itÅfs manyÅfs first 
encounter with it as well. Depending on the Magician and the situation, the training may range 
anywhere from formal institutions that teach the fundamentals, master-apprentice relationships, to 
even little more than philosophical movements haphazardly adopted into becoming magical doctrine.
	Due to Magic being reliant on Earthblood, itÅfs malleable and can be shaped easily through the 
use of a Grimoire - the MagicianÅfs personal shorthand for manifesting their powers. Capable 
Magicians barely need to recite passages or focus themselves, though many more have met an early 
grave by a simple mispronunciation. A Grimoire is a collection of methods to focus and refine oneÅfs 
Magic, it could be an actual book that the Magician must carefully manage, a file on their wrist 
computer, or intricate tattoos on their body. Learning a MagicianÅfs Grimoire lets someone mimic their 
abilities, making protecting it the first thing that an apprentice will learn. After that, Magic Theorem 
and training is all that matters.
	The Magus is the standard term for a Magician, a well rounded and educated individual in their 
arts. Whether this is Algonquin Shamanistic Magic, Aeven Theory, or their own doctrine they have 
sworn themselves too colors and shapes how Magic actually functions. This training and philosophical 
standpoint lets the Magus to twist their magic to their own ends - resulting in further subschools and 
beliefs inside of an already diverse school of thought. As Earthblood is a foundational energy, the 
development of these heuristic shortcuts and mantras can have the same Grimoire manifest different 
spells depending on the Magus employing them. Of course radically different philosophies also crop 
up, using the chaotic force to their own ends.
	Naturally, Magicians loathe being around Psychics.
	The reasons differ, but the two have competing auras that encapsulate their power. Clashes 
break down into fist fights as their magic or psychic powers are rendered moot against one another. 
This has led to frequent Anti-Psychic or Anti-Magic groups that form around any political entity, even 
to the detriment of their own ideology. 
Å@Å@Å@The Great Lakes Confederacy employs Magicians in their ranks, most of them being trained in 
Southside (if only to be away from Psychics). Training tends to be sporadic to the heavily institutional 
Cedar Point Academy, with a few hundred students at any time. Though more Algonquin Shamans 
have begun venturing further into Stony Point to ply their trade. Magicians tend to be wanderers, 
drifting from place to place or working for mercenary companies needing some more magical 
firepower.


?
Earthblood & Unnatural Phenomenon
	The end of the world was punctuated by a mixture of nuclear hellfire and the last great hurrah 
from great Mother Earth - she bled. Earthblood has been a term being floated around for decades by 
explorers, scholars, and anyone with enough sense to know about it. In basic terms, Earthblood is the 
primal essence of existence, the first ÅgthingÅh that existed and the basis of all of reality. Pouring through 
records and recovering old data troves reveals the closest word to it would be Aether, but even that 
had properties to it, intangible, but ever present. In laymanÅfs language, Earthblood is the blood of the 
Earth keeping the heart, lungs, and brain of the world itself functional. Now that it was torn open, it 
spews out uncontrollably as the Errant Earth either dies squirming or clots itself one day.
	Until then, itÅfs a fact of life.
	Earthblood by its nature is ÅgMore.Åh ItÅfs an excess of life that flourishes everything around it, but 
twists and mangles it at the same time. Dense foliage overruns entire old cities, the water has a 
unnatural hue and invigorating taste, even the animals of yesterday have been enhanced into what 
used to be called ÅgMegafauna.Åh Rapid, divergent, uncontrolled evolution results around the various 
Earthblood wounds that appear. These wounds can be sporadic, an area may become saturated in 
Earthblood causing it to twist and change in a few months before it closes itself - whatever unnatural 
entities that spawned from it adapting to their new reality. This has led to Earthblood Geysers 
appearing in specialized spots - massive spewing bouts of raw energy that if left undirected creates 
an unnatural set of phenomenon and bizarre occurrences.
	One of the stranger expressions of the Earthblood are Leylines, vast stretches of Earthblood 
leaving a ÅgTrailÅh to the next Geyser. Most of the time they are undetectable except to the most 
hardened Magicians - but those who study the Earthblood and its effects can always see the subtle 
signs. This isnÅft implying Magicians donÅft cast an incorrect spell or not think about it, throwing them 
miles away with a bad teleportation or having a fireball explode in the middle of an empty field as the 
Leyline simply ÅgabsorbedÅh the magic to place it elsewhere. Leyline Walkers are able to manipulate 
these, throwing spells and themselves across the vast stretches of the Errant Earth on the highways of 
reality. 
	Why hasnÅft humanity or civilization crumbled in the aftermath of these ripping apart the old 
world? They did, for a time. Earthblood is natural though, something that flows perfectly fine on its 
own and doesnÅft struggle to create whatÅfs already natural. Humanity has perfected the art of the 
unnatural, preferring to tame the world than live in harmony with it. Crafted from alloys, false metals, 
and manufactured goods, itÅfs mused that humanity was the perfect opposing force to Earthblood. 
Raw Earthblood hates urbanized, metallic, or ÅgunnaturalÅh places - what power it can manifest there is 
little more than a flicker compared to one of their smallest open wounds. 
	This hasnÅft stopped humanity from harnessing this power, those exposed to it may have the 
spark of magic embedded in their souls, rapid onset mutations are often due to it, and even those who 
feed on the latent energy follow the wounds and ride the waves they create. One day humanity will 
need to live without this power, this raw expression of life that burns within the veins of the world, but 
today is not that day.
?
The Tears
Å@Å@Å@Earthblood isnÅft the only mysterious oddity that occurred, perhaps due to the influx of that raw 
energy and connections to other pockets of existence, lead to the Tears opening up. Tears are 
anomalies to all those except the wisest and more experienced, but the laymen know one thing - 
Tears cause others to come through. The difficulty of discussing Tears is due to the infinite realities 
that they open up to and the explanation others give for why. A Tear may open for day on the Errant 
Earth but be reported to be opened for a century on the other side, other times a glowing pillar of light 
that has been part of the natural landscape since the Collapse sporadically throws unfortunates into 
the world without a care. 
Å@Å@Å@Tears open a portal, often one way, to the Errant Earth from ÅgOtherÅh places. Sometimes other 
humans come through, displaced and mystified about the world, abducted gunslingers meet veterans 
from ancient wars, only to be hired together by a field agent from a different worldline entirely. But 
the ÅgExosÅh are the most common. Exo is part identifier, part slur, for displaced groups and societies 
from beyond a Tear. Some are alien in nature, a hyper developed society that danced across the 
cosmos only to find themselves lost in this foreign world. Others are more fantastical, straight out of a 
fairy tale as Aeven, Orcs, Lizardmen, and other creatures talk about their thousands of different 
worlds where their magic is used freely and the blade determines the future. 
Å@Å@Å@Those who have been stranded for years have adapted to their new home. Generations of 
their people are now becoming an indistinguishable part of the makeup of society. Elegant silver 
skinned Yashima artisans perfect their art pieces alongside animal eared shape changing Pucca from 
far off places. Prejudice still exists though - as it would if there were no Exos. Though the validity is 
already called to question. Periods of peace will be punctuated by an invasion by a foreign species, 
only held off through overwhelming firepower, bands of heroes, or heroic sacrifices. Other parts of the 
world have fallen entirely to a Tear opening up a hole to a nightmare dimension where things beyond 
color and reason linger, only for them to creep into a world of distorted shapes and incorrect 
vibrations that they seek to cleanse.
Å@Å@Å@The Errant Earth is home to many strangers. Whether they are friend or enemy is for the one 
holding the gun to decide. 

The Drifters
Å@Å@Å@Drifters are by their nature a transitory people - driven from their homes by either a burning 
wanderlust, fortunate circumstances, or the needs of others. Drifters wander, finding themselves in the 
Errant EarthÅfs many curiosities and problems. Many pursue higher ambitions, some may be simply to 
find a new home, others wish to find the ultimate payday, while few are attracted to the siren call of 
power that seems to reach out to them.
Å@Å@Å@Drifters are never quite at home anywhere - strangers in a strange land that band together not 
necessarily out of obligation or desire, but mutual protection. One may dislike the hulking brute who 
canÅft speak their language well and drools after any meat, but appreciating them ripping a raging 
mutant in half is always good. 
Å@Å@Å@
Great Lakes Confederacy
	 The formation of the Great Lakes Confederacy began when the Fermi Brotherhood formally 
established the community around what would gradually be known as Stony Point. Stony Point is a 
nuclear reactor in which a Earthblood Wound opened up in, rather than cause damage or mutate the 
surroundings, the immortal and robotic caretakers simply integrated it into the system and spiked 
power output to ludicrous levels. The Fermi Brotherhood began exploiting the power and eventually 
Stony Point became a town, then a city, then the sprawling metropolis it is today.
	The nominal head of the Confederacy is the Council of Seven, ten members democratically 
elected to manage the day-to-day operations alongside the Lower Chambers of a hundred different 
individuals with some democratic seats and other established seats for important groups in society. As 
Stony Point grew it reached out to other communities in the area, offering power and their expertise 
in exchange for whatever they could offer. The first major alliance was with Chigeon, the mutant and 
exo filled community in the ruins of Old Chicago - namely the Grand Diocese of Chigeon and the 
Regent of St. Peter. Expanding further and further until most of the Great Lakes Region had some kind 
of affiliation with Stony Point and the Lower Chambers became further bloated with alliance 
members and allies to the Fermi Brotherhood and the power plant. 
	This lasted for around fifty years before tensions began to arise - different members of the 
Confederacy began accusing others of Ågtaking more than their dueÅh and after the Canadian War a 
decade ago, all civility broke down and the Confederacy was split between the Coalition and the 
Union.
	The Coalition is based around Saint Marie on the border of the Canadians - originally a 
militarized society, they saw the worst fighting of the Canadian War and they gradually became 
disenfranchised by the ÅgWeakÅh further south. The Coalition boasts a strong military and allies within 
Stony Point itself - their continued war against ÅgThe OthersÅh has turned to fascist rhetoric. They are led 
by Grand Marshal Furio, a dour and angry man who has grand ambitions of turning the Confederacy 
into his own personal empire. Though Furio is often undermined by his own minions trying to earn his 
favor, earn their own petty ranks and honors, or trying to usurp the Grand Marshal himself. Without this 
inefficiency at the top ranks of society, the Coalition could probably sweep the Confederacy entirely - 
but holding it would be a different story?
	The UnionÅfs base of operation is Buffalo Falls, though their allies take up a majority of the Lake 
Ontario region as well as those few who remain affiliated with them in Stony Point. What the Union 
lacks in conventional military they make up for in a host of artists, exos, psychics, and ÅgOthersÅh that are 
demeaned by others. Not to say that the Union is unified in any way. Different groups rally together to 
oppose the Coalition, not to support one another. Haphazard Militias are more likely to fight among 
themselves than lead a consistent fight against their ideological enemy. Leading to the Union 
leadership employing adventurers and drifters to do a majority of the work.
	The future of Stony Point and the Confederacy is in the balance - ChigeonÅfs mounting unrest 
between the two forces are reaching a boiling point, skirmishes in the East are escalating into full 
blown battles, and hungry eyes of the enemies of the Confederacy seem to seeing if this moment of 
weakness is the time to decapitate their ancient enemy. 

New World Bible - A Collection of Notes about the Great Lakes Confederacy
Åú	Algonquin Tribes are welcomed as part of the Confederacy, though they arenÅft all affiliated 
with them. Most keep to themselves in their own communities and beliefs. 
Åú	Chigeon itself is divided between the Arbiters, the ÅgHumans and Other Respectable 
IndividualsÅh of the city who fight in the streets against the New Order, a group of radical Exo, 
Deviant Mutants, and ÅgFreaksÅh who want equal rights for everyone by gunpoint.
Åú	ChigeonÅfs current Papal Regent is Carmerlengo IV, a pureblood mutant who is favorable 
toward both the Union and Coalition for different reasons.
Åú	Due to the abundance of power from the plant, energy weapons are used frequently among 
the Confederate Armies. 
Åú	Most trade comes from the rivers and lakes, with the conflict taking up major ports, progress 
has started to slow in that regard.
Åú	Stony Point has no allegiance to the Union or Coalition - instead acting as neutral grounds for 
the conflict. Whoever ÅgwinsÅh the war will be able to reshape the Confederacy in their image. 
Åú	The Confederacy doesnÅft discriminate on any basis - Exo, Magician, Psychic, etc. But 
individual communities inside the Confederacy do.
Åú	The Confederate Army is a ragtag organization of militias, the Canadian War helped 
demonstrate the efficiency of the system and led to the creation of the Coalition with ÅgActual 
Military ProfessionalismÅh over the current draft system. The actual army now is mostly 
stationed around Stony Point and Chigeon on defense. 
Åú	The Fermi Brotherhood is officially neutral in the conflict, managing the Power Plant being 
their primary goal. By themselves the Brotherhood is half trade union and half religious 
organization, most not even being trained technicians or engineers, just those trained on how 
to maintain the power plant.
Åú	The two dominant languages inside the Confederacy are American and Algonquin - there 
are others but tend to be practiced inside their own communities.
Åú	With the fighting, banditry and other ÅgmalevolentÅh forces have begun operating more in the 
open. Monsters that used to be taken care of are now running amok and deserters are taking 
to the roads to exact tolls on anyone unfortunate enough to be in the area.
Åú	ÅgThe Canadian WarÅh was against a savage group of tech barbarians from the Deep North 
that came down to claim land and plunder, they were pushed back beyond the border - but 
ÅgThe Savage CanadianÅh is still seen as the default.

Confederate Records - The Great Lakes Confederacy & You
The Confederacy may seem a bit light on content, but itÅfs mostly an open ended area that allows 
the GM and Players to add things to Errant Earth without breaking too much. The conflict and 
problems can also be slotted into a majority of places in the world. If you want the Everglade 
Confederacy with a Naval Coalition versus Backwoods Floridian Union, then go for it. The concepts 
are adaptable and easy to mold elsewhere. 
?
Drifting Vagabonds
Å@Å@Å@Errant Earth is a roleplaying game about the adventures and struggles of a disparate group of 
Drifters in a wild and twisted Earth far after the Collapse destroyed it. With the opening of the Tears 
and Earthblood Geysers - high technology, powerful magic, weird psychics, and other Exos that find 
themselves on the Errant Earth, the struggle to survive mixes with the strange and wonderful from 
places-beyond-places.
	A group of Players, or PL, will become a set of Drifters. These men and women find themselves 
wandering the Errant Earth in search of their own ends - whether this is fame, fortune, destiny, or the 
will to make a difference is up to them. They will need to manage their resources, allies, and skills in the 
field to make their mark, or they may end up joining many who could not. One of these players will be 
the Game Master, or GM. As the Game Master, their role is to be the narrator of events and act on 
behalf of the ensemble cast the Drifters will encounter in peace and war. They will place challenges 
and situations in front of the Drifters, forcing these wayward children of the apocalypse to overcome 
or succumb to them. 
	Errant Earth uses the D20/100 System and is played with a full set of dice from D4 to D20. 
Whenever a Drifter attempts an action with a chance of failure or is in direct opposition to another, 
they will perform a Check to see if they succeed or fail. The GM will declare the Check to be an 
Attribute or Skill Check, but a clever Drifter may propose alternatives to the situation they find 
themselves in.
 
	Attribute Checks are called when the Drifter must rely on brute forcing the situation or relying 
on their personal abilities rather than any formal training. They will take a twenty-sided die, or D20, 
and attempt to roll under their Attribute.
	If they roll under their Attribute Score, they are successful and manage to bypass the situation. 
If they roll over their Attribute Score, they fail and suffer the consequences. 

A Drifter needs to pull themselves up on a ledge, they roll against the Power Attribute to pull 
themselves up. Failure has them struggle to climb up and waste time in the attempt.

Å@Å@Å@Skill Checks are called when the Drifter is using their training or skills to attempt to overcome a 
problem. They will take two ten-sided dice (d10) and roll them together. One die will record the 10's 
place while the other records the 1's place  - this is called making a Percentile, or D100, roll.
	If the Drifter rolls under their Skill, they are successful and manage to work out how to solve the 
situation. if they roll over their Skill, they fail and suffer complications that may arise. 

A Drifter is scouting the nearby woodland area, they'll be rolling a Wilderness Survival check. With 
their Wilderness Survival at 43, they manage to score a 12, succeeding at the Check.

?
Opposed Checks
	Whenever the Drifter is being directly opposed by another individual or group, both parties will 
be making a Check to determine the victor. Both groups will be making the same type of Check unless 
specified, and whoever is victorious wins the day. It is entirely possible for both sides to emerge 
victorious, in this case, whoever has the highest result will manage to overcome their opponent. For 
example, if a Drifter rolls a 43 and succeeds, if their opponent rolls a 42 or less, no matter if they 
succeed or not, they will still lose the competition.
Å@Å@Å@If both sides fail their Check, they will roll again with a -2 / -10% until one either runs out of their 
ability to act or someone manages to succeed. If both parties are particularly skilled or their Attributes 
are large, they will use the 20/100 Rule instead. If one or both parties exceed 20 in Attributes, they will 
both apply a penalty until the highest Attribute is a 20 and then roll. In addition, if one or both parties 
exceed 100 in a Skill, they will apply a penalty until it is only 100.
 
Two Drifters are locked in an arm wrestling 
match, both roll their Power Attribute. One Drifter 
successfully rolls a 5 and the other a 19 - the 
Drifter with 19 fails the Check and loses the 
competition.
Two Drifters are competing against one another 
in a race. Both will roll their Ground Vehicle 
Piloting Skill. Both of the Drifters succeed at their 
Check, but one rolls a 23 and the other a 32 - the 
32 wins.
 
A Drifter is challenged to a drinking contest with a 
Mutant with Supernatural Hardiness of 23, while 
they only have a 15. The Mutant imposes a -3 to 
both their own and the DrifterÅfs Hardiness (20 vs 
12) before the Opposed Check begins. The Drifter 
rolls an 11, but the Mutant scores a 16 and drinks 
them under the table after a few rounds. 
A Drifter is attempting to defeat a rival in a 
musical contest - they have a Musical Instrument 
Skill of 125 and their opponent has 150. Both incur 
the -50 Penalty for a 75 vs 100 Skill Check. The 
Drifter scores a 68 while their opponent manages 
to roll a 13 - the Drifter successfully beats the 
superior foe, if only barely. 


The Wayward Notes: Combat	
During Combat, the Drifters will be making D20 
Checks to hit their enemies, rather than rolling 
under, combat in Errant Earth and the D20/100 
System is against a Target Number, requiring 
the Drifter to roll over to beat it. This is 
expanded out and thoroughly explained in the 
Combat Chapter. 

Confederate Records: Rounding
All instances of Rounding will be rounded up, so 
2.5 would be 3, with 2.3 also being 3. If this isnÅft 
the case, it will be noted.

Saves
	During their encounters on the Errant 
Earth, the Drifters will occasionally need to 
protect themselves from threats that are not 
immediately physical. A "Save" is an Attribute 
Check that allows the Drifter to resist the 
effects of certain abilities used on them.
	If the Save is Successful, the effect is 
mitigated or halved in effectiveness - if the 
Save Fails then the Drifter experiences the full 
consequences. 
Difficulty Rating
	Situations on the Errant Earth can be hectic and often dangerous, whenever a complication or 
boon is affecting the Drifter they will be using a Difficulty Rating. Difficulty Ratings are bonuses and 
penalties applied to the Drifter's Check should they attempt it. These are always considered to be 
"exterior" factor, often related to the environment, other people, or the situation in front of them rather 
than their own personal skill.
Å@Å@Å@Difficulty Ratings are judged as "One" - meaning that if the Drifter has a +30% ease, a -20% later 
on would make the final calculation a +10% instead. 
Å@Å@Å@
Difficulty
Modifier
Difficulty
Modifier
Pathetic
+30% / +6
Hellish
-30% / -6
Easy
+20% / +4
Hard
-20% / -4
Routine
+10% / +2
Difficult
-10% / -2

Defaulting
	Whenever a Drifter does not have a Skill appropriate to the 
situation, they may instead attempt to Default to one of their 
Attributes. When Defaulting, the Drifter will multiply the appropriate 
Attribute by the current Difficulty of the Check. They will then make a 
Skill Check instead of the Attribute Check.
	For example, if a Drifter is Defaulting to an Attribute of 12 with 
only Average Complexity, they will need to make a Skill Check with a 
Target Number of 24 (12 Attribute x 2 Complexity).
	Not every Skill may have the Drifter Default, the Game Master 
has the final say on what is, and is not, appropriate for the Drifter to 
attempt a Default Check on. If the Drifter does succeed at a Defaulted 
Skill Check, the Success should be less ÅgknowhowÅh and more related to 
either luck or it being the minimum viable success. Failing a Defaulted 
Check is often a similar, or more gradoise failure due to not knowing 
what's actually going wrong. 

Complexity
Multiplier
Pathetic
x4
Easy
x3
Routine
x2
Difficult
x1
Hard
? 
Hellish
?

The 99/00 & Skills Over 100%
	Whenever the Drifter is making a Skill Check, a roll of 99 or 100 will always result in Failure, no 
matter how high the Skill is. This represents the quirks of fate interfering with the Drifter's plans, such 
as unexpected complications or unlucky happenstance. Skills can reach over 100%, meaning that they 
can only fail with the 99/00, but they will be able to blunt any complications that may occur to 
maintain their two-percent margin of error. 
Damage Scaling [M6]
	Errant Earth is considered to be an M6 Setting. This means it is a Megacapable Setting with 
Mega Damage (MD) being recorded normally and potentially lethally. If the Drifters were to ever take 
Giga or Ultra Damage, they will not record it and instead be immediately vaporized or annihilated by 
the titanic attack.

(S)tandard Damage
(M)ega Damage
(G)iga Damage
(U)ltra Damage
1
100
10,000
1,000,000

	The [6] represents the six stages that Attributes may be at and the potential they can grow 
into. Mortal, Augmented, Mechanical, Supernatural, Exalted, and Divine Attributes represent a 
combination of raw potential as well as the source of the strength of the Attribute in generaDul. If 
there is ever a tie in an Attribute or Skill Check - the Character with the superior Attribute Potential will 
automatically win. These may also feed into other aspects depending on the Attribute being effected 
and their uses.

Max Attribute Potential
Mortal
Augmented
Mechanical
Supernatural
Exalted
Divine
18
20
22
24
26
30

The Wayward Notes	
Throughout the Errant Earth Rulebook, The 
Wayward Notes will provide gameplay notes 
and examples when appropriate. 

New World Bible
The New World Bible is a set of notes and 
situations recorded by the explorers, 
vagabonds, and other researchers of the world. 
This contains helpful notes of the Errant Earth 
and potentially beyond.

Confederate Records
When the Game Designer is speaking to the 
reader, the Confederate Records will be used. 
Mr. Tarn is notorious for writing inane notes 
down.
?
Drifter Creation
	The Errant Earth is host to a plethora of souls from all walks of life. The path of the Drifter 
doesn't discriminate and many find themselves taking up the wayward lifestyle for their own reasons. 
The quintessential Drifter is a wanderer, someone who rolls into a community to do some work before 
leaving again. The term has morphed and changed over the years, some taking it as a mark of pride 
of their nomadic lifestyle, others viewing it as an demeaning insult to their new situation.
	Regardless of the reason why they are drifting, each one has the knowhow to survive and will 
be making a name for themselves - whether they like to or not. 

Attributes
	Attributes represent a set of basic qualifications for the Drifter and their natural perspective on 
their lifestyle after they have begun their new life. These are intrinsic parts of the Drifter and will 
inform large parts of their actions, choices, and abilities throughout their allies. Attributes will rarely 
change afte they have been determined, only being modified after augmentation, ATB (Attribute 
Bonus) Skills, or relying on the quirks of fate that seem to follow them. Of course, oneÅfs Attributes may 
also fall due to horrific injury or other debilitating effects.
	To determine one's Attributes, the Drifter will take the three dice gained from their 
Backgrounds and Occupations - rolling them together to determine their final result. The natural 
Mortal limit of Attributes is 18, a quintessential person with heroic disposition. Though Attributes can 
also dip a low as 3 normally, representing severe handicaps or issues affecting the Drifter's personal 
life.
	Errant Earth has six scales to represent how modified a Drifter is in regards to their Attributes. 
These six scales represent how high the Drifter's Attribute potential is, as well as how they appear to a 
majority of others.

Attribute Scale
ATB
Description
Mortal
1 - 18
Perfectly normal Attribute, nothing too dramatic about it.
Augmented
1 - 20
The Attribute has been modified, improving it fundamentally and 
internally.
Mechanical
1 - 22
The Attribute has cybernetic enhancements to further its potential.
Supernatural
1 - 24
The Attribute is blatantly supernatural and almost paradoxical in its use.
Exalted
1 - 26
The Attribute is impressive and nearly impossible to beat conventionally.
Divine
1 - 30
The Attribute is second only to divine beings that it takes its name from.
?

Anima (ANM)

Bravado (BRV)
 

 
Description

Description
The power of the DrifterÅfs soul and their reserves 
of Åginner strengthÅh that allows them to push 
through disasters and problems. High Anima may 
indicate an Ågold soulÅh - wise beyond their years.. 

The DrifterÅfs sense of self, appearance, and 
charisma allows them to make friends and 
influence people. A high Bravado may indicate a 
natural confidence or strong personality.
Those who Favor Anima. . .

Those who Favor Bravado . . .
Psychics, Witch Hunters, Egoists, Philosophers, 
Martial Artists

Recruiters, Performers, Journalists, and Shock 
Jockeys

Comprehension (COM)

Finesse (FIN)
 

 
Description

Description
The DrifterÅfs awareness and natural knack for 
finding the truth in different matters, be it 
practical or scholarly. Impressive Comprehension 
is shown by being perceptive and naturally quick-
witted.

The DrifterÅfs agility, dexterity, and hand-eye 
coordination rolled into one to act fast, and move 
quicker. An excellent Finesse often manifests as a 
lithe build and quick hands with nearly everything.
Those who Favor Comprehension. . .

Those who Favor Finesse. . .
Scientists, Naturalists, Wilderness Scouts, and 
Explorers

Thieves, Technicians, Getaway Drivers, and 
Sharpshooters

Hardiness (HRD)

Power (POW)
 

 
Description

Description
The DrifterÅfs natural endurance, resistance, and 
constitution in the face of injury, trauma, and 
horrible fates that befall them. Hardy Drifters are 
easy to spot, plenty of scars to prove it.

The DrifterÅfs physical strength and force behind 
their punches, ability to use and manifest their 
strength properly. A developed Power is shown 
through muscular builds and builds.
Those who Favor Hardiness. . .

Those who Favor Power. . .
Boxers, Sappers, Cybernetic Junkies, 
Commandos, and Bouncers

Teamsters, Marines, Miners, and Soldiers

Speed (SPD)

Willpower (WIL)
 

 
Description

Description
The DrifterÅfs raw speed while moving as fast as 
they can as well as their innate reaction time. 
Those who have high Speed are quick on their 
feet and sometimes jittery.

The DrifterÅfs mental strength and reserves, 
allowing them to resist failing morale and despair. 
Those with a decisive Willpower are courageous 
to a fault and refuse to back down easily.
Those who Favor Speed. . .

Those who Favor Willpower. . .
Athletes, Couriers, Mascots, and 

Clergymen, Lawyers, Magicians, and Officers
?
Background & Occupations
	Every Drifter has a story to tell. With each of these stories they always tend to be the 
protagonist of their own heroic fantasy or rather miserable experience. 
	Each Drifter has Backgrounds and Occupations which define their initial skill set, physical 
features, and attributes they have. Normally a Drifter has three: Background, Occupation, and one of 
their choice. Specialized Drifters only have a Background and Occupation. Each different Background 
and Occupation has their own separate set of benefits and drawbacks associated with them, with the 
Drifter being able to improve them gradually.
	Whenever the Drifter has reached a milestone in their life, they will increase their Character 
Level, or CL, by one. CL indicates the overall experience of the Drifter in the field, thus a "CL 5" Drifter is 
more experienced than a "CL 1" Drifter. Increasing a CL allows the Drifter to increase the Rank of all of 
their currently acquired Backgrounds and Occupations, increasing their Rank by 1 . Specialized 
Drifters may add two Ranks to their Occupation or Background, alternating between the two . 
	Background and Occupation features may be measured by Character Level or Rank. Every CL 
5 is every five Character Levels, while Rank 5, indicates that it must be at least Rank 5 or greater. 
Increasing CL directly increases each Background and Occupation, so why the difference?
	Drifters may transfer out of Backgrounds and Occupations during different intervals in their life. 
Representing a part of their life that no longer defines them or is stagnating them. Once a Background 
or Occupation is transferred out of, the Drifter may not "re-enter" the Background or Occupation. 
Though they will keep all of the bonuses (and drawbacks) they would have acquired from their time. 
	Different Backgrounds and Occupations will have a different amount of Karma they have 
access to. Karma is gained every CL equal to the Karma ratings of all current Backgrounds and 
Occupations. This allows the Drifter to further develop themselves outside of the rigidity of their 
Background or Occupation. High Karma indicates an adaptable and open ended approach, while low 
(or negative!) Karma is rigid and strict in how it develops properly .?
Name of Occupation / Background (Occupation / Background Supertype)
Alternative Names, Technical, Derogatory, and Complimentary Terms.
Å@Å@Å@Å@The Occupation / Background Supertype represents larger trends and natures of the Occupation itself - such as being 
ÅgScholarsÅh or ÅgMan-At-ArmsÅh just as much as being a ÅgRaceÅh or ÅgBackground.Åh Normally this section would contain a quick write up on the 
nature of the background and deeper information about those who walk the bath.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
Each Occupation and 
Background will provide 
a set of Attribute Die for 
the Drifter to roll after 
choosing them.
 
These are the DrifterÅfs 
Starting Attributes.
Bravado

Comprehension

Finesse

Hardiness

Power

Speed

WIllpower



Endurance
Bonuses to both HP and 
Endurance
Health

Karma
# of Karma
Potential
Whether the Drifter has 
Potential for Psychic or 
Magical Abilities
ESP / MP
Bonuses to ESP or MP
Transfer
Rank Required to 
Transfer out.
Learning Rate
Ranks required for a 
new Learned Skill


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Primary Skills developed when the Drifter first takes this Background 
or Occupation - not acquired if Transferred into later.
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Learned Skills develop when the Background or ClassÅfs Learning Rate 
in Ranks appears. Thus a Learning Rate 3 would learn a new Learned 
Skill from this list every 3 Ranks.

A Drifter may choose to select one of their Primary Skills to gain a 
+10% bonus to it instead.



Special Abilities - Certain Background and Occupations have 
special abilities which will be noted. If there is a unique Skill 
included it will have the complete Development Rate and is 
assumed to be a CORE Skill for purposes of improving it later on, 
regardless of the Development Rate.

If the Special Ability is dictated as ÅgEvery X RanksÅh then the Drifter 
will begin with it if this is their first Background or Occupation, 
NOT if they transferred into it.


The Wayward Notes - Particulars & Such
The Backgrounds & Occupations presented here are a 
collection of simplified and often generic situations that 
can be slotted anywhere on the Errant Earth.
If a Player or GM wishes to include the ÅgParticularÅh Rules - 
consult the following.
 
When the Drifter selects an Occupation or Background 
they may announce it is a Particular Occupation or 
Background. They gain a Lore or Trade Skill related to 
this new particular at the Core Level, but increase their 
Transfer Rate by +2.

Thus a Fermi Brotherhood Scientist would have the Lore: 
Fermi Brotherhood Skill with a Transfer of 5. 


Starting Equipment Package: Which Equipment Packages 
the Drifter may select. After they have selected everything, 
they may only choose one of these.
 
Starting Wealth: Starting amount of Stony Point Credits for 
the greater Great Lakes Confederacy region. The Drifter 
begins with the sum total of all of their Backgrounds and 
Occupations.

Signature Focus: Different aspects about the Background 
or Occupation that may tie into features of others. Such as 
ÅgGaudyÅh being a descriptor for Power Armor for a 
Mercenary Pilot.

Transfer Requirements: If the Drifter wishes to Transfer 
into the Background or Occupation, they must meet these 
requirements to ÅgUnlockÅh it.

Standard Transfer : What options are available for the 
Background or Occupation to transfer out of naturally. If 
they have the Transfer Requirements for a different 
Background or Occupation, they may choose that instead. 

The Wayward Notes - Background / Occupation Supertypes

Supertype
B / O
Can Take Multiple?
Description
Racial
Background
No
The Drifter belongs to a particular type of people - whether 
it is an alien species or robotic chassis.
Qualifier
Background
Some
The Drifter has a particular racial understanding which has 
morphed their being into a subtype of another.
History
Background
Yes
The Drifter has a particular background or history in a 
certain field or area of expertise.
Trait
Background
Yes
The Drifter has been inflicted with or has the unfortunate 
reality of possessing a certain trait or procedure done.
Adventurer
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is drawn to the wandering life, preferring the 
comforts of the open road over conventional living.
Man-At-Arms
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is a warrior at heart, fighting against the end of 
the world with a gun in both hands.
Educated
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is a learned individual, taking pride in their skills, 
knowledge, and understanding of the world.
Psychic
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is a trained Psychic, able to manipulate their 
abilities without issue.
Magical
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is a trained Magician, able to use and 
manipulate their magical talents with ease.
Expert
Occupation
Yes
The Drifter is an expert in a particular field or influence, 
letting them pull their weight directly or indirectly.
Legacy
Occupation
No, except Novice
The Drifter possesses a Legacy, allowing them to cement a 
fact about themselves and their destiny in the world.


The Wayward Notes - Standard vs Specialist


Standard (3 B/O)
Specialist (2 B/O)
Ranks
Standard +1 Rank per CL
Alternating +2/+1 Rank per CL
Attributes
Standard Die Roll
Take Average (? of Max Die) of 
Background or Occupation
Skills
Standard Skills
Standard Skills
Endurance / HP
Standard
Double the Result of their Background 
or Occupation
Starting Credits
Standard
Double Total
Starting Karma
Standard
Add +6 Karma to Initial Amount

?
Backgrounds

Academic (History)
Teachers, Students, Trainors, Tutors, Fellow, Pretentious
	The Drifter was born and raised into the scholarly side of life - preferring books, lectures, and 
tapes of ancient history, scientific knowledge, and other pursuits of the mind. Their education may be 
sporadic, sometimes formally in the ramshackle schools and impromptu universities of the 
Confederacy but other times they are little more than scavenged knowledge preached by a 
wandering teacher or a diligent guardian willing to enable a drive.
	Academics arenÅft the adventuring type by nature, but the pursuit of knowledge or the passion 
for learning has many strike out in search of their own research.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d3 / CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
3
Potential
+10
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any 
Core
Cram School
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
Any
Science
Trained
Any
Technical
Trained
Any
Cultural
Trained
Any
Any
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained
Armchair Scholar
ATB Skill
ATB Skill



Developed Educational Process - Academics have trained themselves 
to internalize knowledge quickly, lest it be lost or taken from them. 
Every 3 Ranks, the Academic may add +10% to three Skills of their 
choice, regardless of current Skill Rating.

Diploma - The Academic can study rigorously to become an expert at 
certain fields. Every 4 Ranks, the Academic may select any Skill above 
50% and give it a Skill Tag of their choice.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Scholar
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 20 Credits

Signature Focus: Books, Knowledge, Precise

Transfer Requirements: 1-Year Tenure at a Scholarly Institution or 3-
Years as a Wandering Scholar or Other Independent Educator.

Standard Transfer : Adventurer or Educated Occupation


?
Adonis (Racial)
Clones, Meatmen, Legionnaires, Samefaces, Bucketheads
	The Adonis is a simple creature, their ÅgPeopleÅh are Homo Perfectus, the perfect specimen of 
humanity synthesized in an ancient lab to be cloned en masse to wage war in the name of whoever 
paid their bills. That history ended with the Collapse - the renegade Adonis of a world that ceased to 
be kept doing what they did best: fight. Endlessly cloning themselves in their facilities to continue the 
war effort against the end of the world.
	The Adonis now continue as theyÅfve always done, often finding themselves as soldiers of 
fortune or enjoying life as much as they can - their perception warped over the endless vats they 
spawned from. Square jawed, grey-eyed, and tanned complexion  is humble in the chaos, but 
adapted to it.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D12
Hardiness
D12
Power
D12
Speed
D10
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+2 / CL
Karma
0
Potential
-65%
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency

 

Catachan - Built to last and survive harsh conditions, Adonis 
can go without eating for a month, water for two weeks, and 
only need to sleep 8 Hours every three days. 

Order 66- The Adonis are wired to listen to orders, they take a 
-10 to all Saves versus Mental Magic, Psychic Powers, or other 
influences over their mind to plant suggestions or deliver 
orders.

War Child Clones - The Adonis are built for war, molded by 
an imaginary one. Their Finesse, Hardiness, Power, and Speed 
are considered to be Augmented.
Starting Equipment Package: Soldier or Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 Credits

Signature Focus: Weapons, Armor, Mass Produced

Transfer Requirements: Not Possible

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms
?
Arcadian (History)
Rural, Countryfolk, Bumpkins, Backwood Jackals
	The natural beauty of the world was lost under the smog and neon lights of the old world, one 
of the few things that the Collapse did fix. One of the few. Arcadian is the term used for the humble 
folks who homestead out in the deep places. They possess the necessary gusto, strength, or 
reclusiveness to live out where monsters roam free and the ÅgCityfolksÅh always want a cut of the crop 
for little more than a few pieces of scrap metal and vague promises.
	Arcadians who venture from their home follow the call of adventure, that odyssian wanderlust 
driving the country kid to the great unknown, or the far more common desperation to shake off losing 
oneÅfs livelihood to the forces that be. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D4
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
4
Potential
+5% to Magic
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
2
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Homesteading OR 
Salvage Operations
Wilderness / Technical
Core
Domestic Work
Cultural
Core
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained
Earth Mechanics: Any
Electronics & 
Mechanics
Trained
Holistic Medicine OR 
Veterinary
Medical
Trained
Animal Husbandry
People
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained



Touching Grass - ArcadianÅfs feel comfortable in the outdoors, they 
possess the Natural Aura (20% +4%) Skill, allowing them to get an 
empathetic read on the natural landscape.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Wilderness or Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 Credits

Signature Focus: Nature, Fauna

Transfer Requirements: 3-Years on a Farmstead or a Retreat in the 
countryside.

Standard Transfer : Any

?
Artifact (Trait)
Attuned, Integrated, Bonded
	With the opening of the Tears and the Exos who spewed out in the chaotic years following, 
artifacts of a hundred-thousand realities have been deposited on the Errant Earth for the blessed or 
unlucky few who would pick them up. Artifacts can be a plethora of different entities that the Drifter 
has bonded with at a fundamental level, allowing them to tap into their powers when needed but also 
feel the compulsion to act on their ArtifactÅfs whims.
	Drifters with an Artifact as also the type to find themselves roving, or at least roving for the 
purpose of avoiding (or being the part of) the consequences of the ÅgpartnerÅfsÅh actions.

ATTRIBUTE
Psychic Die
Magical Die
Anima
D10
D4
Bravado
-
-
Comprehensio
n
D8
D8
Finesse
D6
D6
Hardiness
D6
D6
Power
D6
D6
Speed
D6
D6
WIllpower
D4
D10



Endurance
+1d8 / 2 CL
+1d8 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
0
0
Potential
Note
Note
ESP / MP
Note
Note
Transfer
Note
Note
Learning Rate
4
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Tear Knowledge
Science
Core
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby

 

The Artifact - The Artifact is always with the Drifter, whether 
they like it or not. The Artifact derives its power from either 
MAGIC or PSYCHIC Abilities due to its creation.
Åú	Magical Artifact - The Artifact is magical in nature, 
being forged from Earthblood or emerging from a 
Mana Rich homeworld. Every 2 Ranks the Drifter is 
able to acquire a new Cantrip related to their 
Artifact. If selected during Drifter Creation - it 
possesses 2 Cantrips of choice.
Åú	Psychic Artifact - The Artifact radiates a 
Psychosignature, allowing it to use the Drifter as a 
vehicle to use psychic phenomenon. Every 2 Ranks, 
the Drifter acquires a Psychic Skill to use. If taken 
during Drifter Creation - it possesses 2 Psychic Skills 
of Choice.

Two Souls - The Artifact is symbiotic with the Drifter, feeding 
off one another for immediate survival or power. The Drifter 
creates their ESP or MP Pool as normal, even if they donÅft have 
awakened Magic or Psychic Powers. When using Spells or 
Psychic Abilities, the Drifter will use this pool to use it. 
Every Rank the Artifact increases the DrifterÅfs ESP or MP by 
+1d10 as its power grows. If the Drifter were to awaken their 
Psychic Power or Magical Ability, they would inherit this as 
their personal ESP / MP..
Parasite Creature - The Artifact is a natural parasite, as long 
as the Drifter has the Artifact Trait, they cannot awaken 
Magic or Psychic Powers. 

Tame the Artifact - Should the Drifter be able to tame their 
Artifact, they immediately transfer out of the Background. 
Åú	Magical Artifacts - Find someone able to use Sealing 
Magic to tame the Artifact from eating them further. 
The Artifact cannot seal itself (nor would it). 
Åú	Psychic Artifacts - The Drifter must enter the Inland 
Empire of the Artifact and negotiate with it. It 
decides when the Drifter is allowed in (or is forced 
open by another Psychic). 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 Credits

Signature Focus: The Artifact

Transfer Requirements: Bond with an Artifact

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation
Coalition (History)
Citizen, Military Ranks, Grunts, Skullheads, Fascist
	Safety and stability is the result of order in the chaos, the Coalition is the bulwark against the 
chaos of the world and only they can lead the path toward a brighter future. The Coalition is a hyper 
militarized and authoritarian society, always readying themselves against ÅgThe Great EnemyÅh that the 
leaders decide upon. One day it is the Exo Menace, the next, the Union must burn, and another it is the 
obvious fault of the ÅgothersÅh who live beyond the borders.
	Drifters who come from the Coalition are conditioned to stop thinking about themselves, 
focusing on the betterment of ÅgSociety.Åh Though the Drifters who used to wear Coalition colors are 
also the type that left that world behind them. Was it too rigid? Too demanding? Perhaps this is simply 
a mission to investigate the unknown. WhoÅfs to know and whoÅfs to say.	

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Trade: Any
Cultural
Hobby
Literacy: American
Cultural
Perfect
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Investigation
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Memetics
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Military
Trained
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained



Service Means Citizenship - The Drifter is considered a 
Citizen of the Coalition - affording them more rights and 
influence inside the borders of the state.

Forever War - Every 3 Ranks, the Drifter may acquire a new 
Weapon Proficiency or Weapon Specialization. The war that 
may never come always calls. 

The Great Menace - Propaganda and the state have always 
painted the ultimate evil, THE GREAT MENACE, that is always 
around the corner. The Drifter possesses the Menace 
Knowledge (50% + 8%) Skill, allowing them to know more 
about the ÅgMenacesÅh to society at large, real or imagined .
Starting Equipment Package: Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 100 Credits

Signature Focus: Military Insignia, Military Notation, Militarized 
Defiance

Transfer Requirements: Citizenship Status of the Coalition

Standard Transfer : Any
?
Corporate (History)
Employees, Field Agent, Businessman, Suits
	Business never really died, the Collapse may have ruined a number of conglomerates and 
destroyed the concept of the market - but the art of supply and demand never truly left. As time 
marches on, the ÅgCorporationsÅh may be represented by functional businesses in the centers of trade 
and urban centers of the world, while others may be a cartel of little more than thieves running a 
legitimate black market.
	Drifters from the Corporate sphere tend to be Assets or Wage Slaves. Assets are those who 
have been hired by the Corporation to act as their people on the outside. Wage Slaves are, as it 
implies, servants of the higher powers of the world as they work themselves to the bone inside and 
outside the cubicle. 

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Wage Slave
Anima
D6
D8
Bravado
D4
D8
Comprehensio
n
D4
D6
Finesse
D8
D4
Hardiness
D8
D4
Power
D8
D4
Speed
D6
D6
WIllpower
D4
D8



Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
4
4
Potential
-
-
ESP / MP
-
-
Transfer
3
3
Learning Rate
3
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Trade: Any
Cultural
Core
Literacy: American
Cultural
Perfect
Lore: The Company
Cultural
Trained
Barter
People
Trained
Etiquette
People
Trained
Any
People
Trained
Any
Any
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Any
Social Sciences
Trained
Technical: Any
Technical
Trained




Paycheck - The Drifter actually receives pay as long as they are in service 
to the company. Every two weeks, as long as the Drifter is reporting their 
location to Headquarters they will receive a paycheck of (Rank+3 x 50) 
Credits to their accounts. In less focused societies, they will instead 
receive goods equal to their current paycheck.

Eyes of Corporate Insight - The Drifter possesses the Skill Market Insights 
(35% + 12%) allowing them to know about how the market is functioning in 
an area as well as identify major power players, their structure, and 
competition. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Civilian
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 150 Credits

Signature Focus: Corporate Memorabilia, Corporate Symbology, 
Business Focused, Mercenary

Transfer Requirements: Signing a 5-Year Contract with a large 
Corporate entity.

Standard Transfer : Any

Cyborg  (Qualifier)
Borgs, Tinheads, Chomehounds, Headhunters, Panzermanner
	The first augmentation is always the best. The replacement of weak flesh with the certainty of 
metal inspires others to dabble in scenes to further enhance, rework, and metallicize their body until 
they reach their "Idealized form." The Drifter is walking the path of cybernetics, replacing nerves with 
wires to ensure their own survival or experience the rush of enhanced strength and endurance.
	But every addiction has its cost. Cybernetics aren't cheap, and even if they can afford them, 
"Legal" cybernetics usually don't have the same rush. Suggesting that the Drifter didn't sign up to be a 
full conversion - replacing flesh with steel for everything but the fragments of brain goo that remain. 

ATTRIBUTE
Partial
Full Borg
Anima
-
-
Bravado
D4
-
Comprehension
D6
D6
Finesse
D8
D8
Hardiness
D8
D12
Power
D8
D12
Speed
D8
D12
WIllpower
D4
D4



Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Note
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Note
Karma
2
0
Potential
-25%
-75%
ESP / MP
-
-
Transfer
4
6
Learning Rate
3
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Cybernetics
Electronics and 
Mechanics
Trained
Lore: Cybernetics
Cultural
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Cyberdoctoring
Medical
Trained
Electronic Warfare
Military
Trained
Formal Science: Math
Sciences
Trained
Bodybuilding
ATB
ATB



Partial Conversion or Full Borg? - 	Cyborgs may elect to be either a 
Partial Conversion or a Full Conversion Cyborg.
	Partial Conversion Cyborgs select two Attributes, making 
them Mechanical as well as rolling for the quality of their Cybernetics 
with a [D4+1]. This Cybernetic Quality is added to the selected 
Attribute.
	Full Conversion Borgs have replaced a majority of their body 
with Cybernetics, leading to being barely human to begin with. They 
are considered to be MD Capable as their skin is entirely metallic with 
their Finesse, Hardiness, Power, and Speed being Mechanical with a 
[D6] Cybernetic Enhancement.

Cybernetic Stress Enhancement - 	Cyborgs are built to endure the 
harsh reality of cybernetic implants. They begin with [HRD + 10] 
Cybernetic Stress instead. Every 3 Ranks, they may increase their 
Cybernetic Stress by +1d6 as their body becomes more acclimated to 
Cybernetic enhancements.
	Full Conversion Borgs treat this as a time to also upgrade their 
Endurance, their body coming to terms with their new metallic shell. 



Cyberdawn - Cyborgs are drawn to the need to 
always enhance their bodies. Partial Conversion 
Cyborgs may undergo the Full Conversion Procedure 
for a cost of 6,000 to 12,000 Credits depending on the 
location and quality of the doctors. 
	Full Conversion Cyborgs do not heal 
naturally nor do they improve their Health naturally. 
They must either repair themselves or have someone 
else repair them to recover their Endurance and 
Health. However, due to their augmentations, they 
begin with an 4d10+20 Endurance and 1d10+5 Health. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond or Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 Credits

Signature Focus: Cybernetics

Transfer Requirements: Mechanical Attribute or 
Cybernetic Enhancements

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation

Dragon Hatchling (Racial)
Wyverns, Dunks, Eggeyes, Wigglers, Emergency Rations
	Dragons are majestic, massive flying creatures that roost where they please and horde what 
they wish. Each Dragon is unique, all of them coming back to the Errant Earth after their long tenure 
away from the planet. Ironically enough, battles between Dragons only occur because one manages 
to come through a Tear, fighting one another for supremacy of this new world that they seem to 
inhabit.
	Dragons exhibit a vast wisdom and boundless intelligence matched only by their ego. They 
believe they are simply superior to others, which considering the smallest adults tend to be the size of 
houses exhibiting magical or even psychic powers, they may be correct. Dragon Hatchlings are born 
of the isolated clutches that have been cropping up over the world - the few being born near 
Earthblood vents or in the delicate care of one of the Dragon's many "Flesh Hoard" attendants. After 
about a week of waddling around and in constant care, they'll take off with their rudimentary wings 
and begin exploring, determining what their own hoard will be.

ATTRIBUTE
Dice
Anima
D8
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D10
Power
D10
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+2 / 2 CL
Karma
1
Potential
+50%
ESP / MP
+1d10 / Rank
Transfer
12
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Language: Draconic
Cultural
Perfect
Appraisal
Cultural
Trained
Scouter
Military
Hobby
Astra Knowledge
Science
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Any
Magic (If Awakened)
Trained
Any
Psychic (If Awakened)
Trained



Draconic Features - Dragons are by their nature MD Creatures, 
converting all of their Endurance and Health into MD Capable 
protection. In addition every 3 Ranks they select another Attribute to 
gain Supernatural Potential. However, due to being a Dragon Hatchling, 
most armor must be custom made for them to have any serious 
protection.
All Dragon Hatchlings begin at the [Small] Size and increase their size 
by one step at Rank 12 .

Wings - Dragon Hatchlings begin with powerful wings that may carry 
themselves in flight. If they have a Strength Modifier of 15+, they may 
wear armor and still be able to fly if fitted correctly. 

Claws & Bites - Dragon Hatchlings possess powerful claws and teeth 
for chewing prey, they are Unarmed Attacks that deal 2d6 Standard 
Damage or 1 Mega Damage. At Rank 5, this increases to 4d6 SD and 
1d6 MD. At Rank 10, this increases entirely to 4d6 MD.

Elemental Dragon - 
Dragons have a gland 
located in their gut which 
produces and stores 
energy, projecting it out in a 
spew. Depending on the 
Dragon Hatchling's Color, 
this may have different 
Elemental Effects. 
Metallic Dragons trend 
toward noble creatures. 
Chromatic and more 
Egotistical. Whisker Dragons 
are extremely solitary.

Red
Fire
Black
Acid
Blue
Ice
Purple
Sonic
Whisker 
White
Psychic
Gold
Fire
Green
Poison
Silver
Ice



Starting Equipment Package: None
 
Starting Wealth: 1d8 Credits (In Shiny Rocks, Scrap, or Baubles)

Signature Focus: Draconic Ancestry
Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation



?
Exo (Racial)
Xeno, Aeven, Jumper, Others
	It's impossible to nail down Exos in a succinct fashion, there are thousands, perhaps millions, of 
different species that now walk the Errant Earth hailing from far off worlds or alien dimensions. The 
"Exo" is a name assigned to all of them - a quick way to point at "the Other." Some wear the term with 
pride, understanding they are strangers in a strange land just as much as everyone else. Others see it 
as a grave insult, their families have been in their world for generations and to be seen as little more 
than an invader is an insult.
	Drifters who come from these disparate groups usually take up life out of necessity. Fresh Exos 
are lost in a world that doesn't know what they are, while those who have ties here still bear the 
unfortunate stigma of not being human. Whether they wish to change it, embrace it, or simply wander 
is up to them.

ATTRIBUTE
Die
Anima
Note
Bravado

Comprehensio
n

Finesse

Hardiness

Power

Speed

WIllpower



Endurance
Note
Health
Note
Karma
Note
Potential
Note
ESP / MP
Note
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
Note


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Language: Native 
Language
Cultural
Perfect
Lore: Species
Cultural
Perfect
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby



Thousand and One Worlds - The Drifter consults the Species 
Creation System on Page (X) to create their customized Exo 
Species. This will determine all of the base Attributes that the 
Drifter has to work with.
After creating their idealized Species, the Drifter will then 
calculate how many Ranks they must remain as the Species 
before being automatically Transferred out.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d3 x 15 Credits

Signature Focus: Exo Species Features

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation

New World Bible - Exo Genesis
The first Exos appeared on the Errant Earth 
around 350 Years Ago when the first major 
Tears became common. From there, anytime a 
Leyline Pops, a Tear Opens, or Random 
Happenstance - Exos will be transported here. 
This has created a diaspora of other worlds and 
cultures, quickly blending together with our 
worldÅfs.
Aliens learn to play rock and roll. Fantastic 
Dwarves replace most of their body with 
cybernetics, the elder dryads work in botanical 
gardens alongside scientists. 
While the Coalition may believe the ÅgExo ThreatÅh 
is always there. Many Exo have become just as 
human as the rest of us, with the same issues.

?
Giant (Qualifier)
Jotun, Ettin, Large Lads, Ogres
	The Drifter is a large one, larger than even their (supposed) kinsman or perhaps they were 
always destined for wide berth and heavy load. Giants aren't common on the Errant Earth, but small 
communities of natural giants, freaks, and other deformities occur every once in a while to warrant 
them being separated out.
	Giants grow large and heavy, their body breaking and reforming to compensate for the rapid 
weight gain and gravity pulling them down. Or it just gets stronger as their size increases. Who's to say 
really?


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D12
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D4
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D12
Power
D12
Speed
-
WIllpower
D12


Endurance
+1d8 / CL
Health
+1d6 / 2 CL
Karma
1
Potential
+5% to Magic
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Bodybuilding
ATB
ATB
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Outdoorsmanship
Wilderness
Trained
Intimidation
People
Hobby
Tracking
Wilderness
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained



Growth - The GiantÅfs size and girth has been growing steadily 
over the years. Every 5 Ranks the Giant increases their Size by 
one step. The Giant may elect to commit to this Background 
to achieve the Size they wish automatically . 

Square Cube Law - The GiantÅfs strength grows proportional 
to their size. Every 3 Ranks the Giant may increase  their 
Power or Hardiness by +1d6. The GiantÅfs Power and Hardiness 
is considered to be Augmented. At Rank 9, these increase to 
Supernatural.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Wilderness Pack
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: Markings

Transfer Requirements: Not Possible

Standard Transfer : Occupation of Choice


?
Juiced (Trait)
Juicers, Nutters, Elysian
	There are the haves and have-nots, two groups that define all of societies across every 
conceivable time and space. But to offer one of those unfortunate have-nots something to make them 
better, a way to take the edge off, one single hit to make them immortal for a minute and feel the 
rush to keep them going. The first hit is always free, the second, third, and each one after demands a 
little bit more and a little less in return. In the cities theyÅfre called Juicers, in less developed areas, 
theyÅfre Elysians, and most other places theyÅfre known by what they are: Addicts with Power.
	Juiced Drifters have been on their preferred enhancement for a while now, and the reaper is 
making rounds with every shot in the heart to make even the weakest man a hero when needed. 
Getting Juiced is expensive and many venture out to get paid to keep juicing, others know that their 
addiction needs them to wander, less something pops at the wrong time. Regardless of the reason, 
donÅft fear the reaper when he comes knocking.

ATTRIBUTE
Die
Anima
D6
Bravado
D10
Comprehensio
n
D4
Finesse
D10
Hardiness
D10
Power
D10
Speed
D10
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+2 / CL
Karma
0
Potential
-50%
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Lore: Addictive 
Substances
Cultural
Trained
Streetwise
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby



The Juice -  The Drifter takes a special substance that 
empowers them and keeps them going. They must choose 
one of the Juicer Variants to be addicted to.
Åú	Vampiris - Less of a drug and more of a condition, 
the Drifter needs to to drink the blood of others to 
keep their body going.
Åú	Turbo - Turbo is an addictive chemical agent given 
to athletes, mercenaries, and anyone needing to 
move fast, act faster, and stop thinking in the 
meantime.
Åú	JAX - A surgical implant delivers a constant stream 
of JAX pumped directly into the veins and nervous 
system. Their muscles are bigger, their body is 
tougher, they feel invincible.
Åú	Hussar - An old-world super soldier serum improved 
upon and administered by the major powers. Though 
many tend to burn out before long. 


The Rush -  The DrifterÅfs Juice grants them a number of 
bonuses as long as they are taking the required amount.
Åú	Vampiris - +2d6 Bravado, +1d4 Finesse, Hardiness, 
and Power. Supernatural Bravado, Augmented 
Finesse, Hardiness, and Power.
Åú	Turbo - +3d6 Speed, +2d6 Finesse, +2 Auto-Dodge, 
+2 Auto-Parry. Supernatural Speed and Finesse.
Åú	JAX - +3d6 Hardiness, +2d6 Power, +3d6 Endurance, 
and +1d6 Health. Supernatural Hardiness and Power.
Åú	Hussar - +2d6 Comprehension. Finesse, Hardiness, 
Power, and Speed. All Attributes Augmented. 
The Sting -  If the Drifter is ever taking an excess amount of 
their Juice, they will gain their particular poisonÅfs Sting.
Åú	Vampiris - Add a +5 / +25% Bonus to all Saves or 
People Skill Checks.
Åú	Turbo - Gain +10 to Personal Initiative, +2 Movement.
Åú	JAX - Become Mega Damage Capable.
Åú	Hussar - Add a +5 to all Combat Skill Checks


The Addiction -  The Drifter is an addict to their particular 
Juice, demanding they take a dose during the intervals 
needed of them. If they cannot, theyÅfll start undergoing 
Withdrawal. 
Åú	Vampiris (1 Cup of Blood / Day) - Vampiris Juicers 
need a full cup of blood a day to get their fix. 
Requiring double the amount from Non-Fresh 
Sources (i.e. Blood Packs or Dead Bodies). 
Åú	Turbo (1 Hit / Week) - Turbo is equal parts huff and 
an injection into the veins. 
Åú	JAX (1 Hit / 12 Hours) - Morning and night the JAX 
addict needs their fix or risk their muscles burning 
out.
Åú	Hussar (Go Juice Bottle / Month) - Go Juice is a 
stimulant targeting the DrifterÅfs modified Bio-
Chemistry. ItÅfs expensive and valuable, controlled by 
only the most elite institutions. 

Golden God -  The more the Drifter takes, the better they 
feel, isnÅft it obvious what they have to do?
Åú	Vampiris - Increase BRV by +1d4 every 3 Ranks
Åú	Turbo - Increase SPD by +1d4 every 3 Ranks.
Åú	JAX - Increase HRD by +2 and Endurance by +1d6 
every 3 Ranks
Åú	Hussar - Increase any Attribute by +1d4 every 3 
Ranks.

The Withdrawal-  When the Drifter misses their Juice hit, 
theyÅfll enter Withdrawal. There are four stages of Withdrawal: 
Light, Heavy, Crippling, and Detox.

Vampiris

Light
Demeanor is considered four steps worse than normal.
Heavy
Bravado, Finesse, Hardiness, and Power are considered 
to be at half their regular value.
Crippling
Must make a WIL Save (-5) to resist attacking someone 
who is bleeding.

Turbo

Light
Lose all Auto-Dodge and Auto-Parry from Turbo.
Heavy
Reduce Pace by half, rounding down. If this would make 
it 0, set it to .25 instead.
Crippling
The Drifter loses the ability to walk unassisted. 

JAX

Light
Every missed dose deals 3d6 SD directly to Endurance 
and then Health.
Heavy
All Physical Actions are considered to be at -8 / -40% 
until a dose is taken.
Crippling
The Drifter enters a coma for 1d6 Days.

JAX

Light
-5 / -25% to all Actions as their limbs grow heavy and 
perception becomes unfocused.
Heavy
Lose all Weapon Proficiencies and Weapon 
Specializations due to chemical imbalances. 
Crippling
Endurance is set to 0 and cannot increase.

The Detox -   Once the Drifter has  gotten past the Crippling 
Withdrawal Effect, they are able to function normally enough 
and begin the Detox process. Detoxing fully takes (1d6 x Juice 
Addiction) Days to process. Until then, they must contend with 
the Light Withdrawal Condition only. If they successfully Detox, 
they are able to Transfer out of the Background.
Åú	Vampiris - Addiction 10 (+1d4 / Rank)
Åú	Turbo - Addiction 6 (+1d10 / Rank)
Åú	JAX - Addiction 15 (+1d6 / Rank)
Åú	Hussar - Addiction 250 (+50 / Rank)

DonÅft Fear the Reaper -  Once the Juiced Drifter begins 
walking this path, they know that spectre is coming faster 
than theyÅfd like to admit. Each Drifter has (30 + 1d6) Years to 
live after their initial procedure and addiction. Every Rank 
reduces these Years by 1, after Rank 6, it is reduced by 1d4 
instead. This process is halted upon Detoxing successfully. But 
they still have the number of years still looming above them.

 
Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 Credits

Signature Focus: Their Juice

Transfer Requirements: Begin taking the Juice or undergo the 
procedure.

Standard Transfer : Any
 
?
Lucky (Trait)
Gamblers, Fortunate Souls, Charmed Life
	Sometimes people are born with the right stars shining on them, the planets are in the correct 
position, the fates are playing the strings of destiny, and everything else seems to result in one thing: 
Luck. Life seems charmed for the Lucky ones, things tend to go ÅgrightÅh when they need it to, everything 
has a set of blessed circumstances that work in their favor. Though these are often the types to end 
up in the unluckiest of situations to only claw themselves out with that same unholy fortune. 
	Lucky Drifters are just that, lucky. At the best of times they are wanderers for their own, often 
completely unrelated, reasons but the extra kick has never let them down. They shouldnÅft be around 
cards or dice though, most are liable to be called cheaters with clean hands. But luck has a bad 
tendency to throw them into situations which demand they rely on it more often than not.

ATTRIBUTE
Die
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehensio
n
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d6 / 3 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
6
Potential
+25%
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Trained
Gambling
Espionage & Rogue
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby



Dumb Luck - The Drifter has their lucky stars when they need 
them. Once per Session, the Drifter may either Flip the result 
of a Skill Check, treat it as if they rolled a Natural 20 on a 
Combat Check, or instantly Succeed at a Save of their choice. 
They gain an additional use of this ability every 5 Ranks.

Cosmic Balance - While fortune smiles on them, the Drifter 
also knows that it has a chance to bite back. Whenever a 
Lucky Drifter fails a Check, itÅfs especially catastrophic in what 
goes horribly wrong.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Civilian
 
Starting Wealth: 1d100 * 1d10  Credits

Signature Focus: Nothing but their Lucky Stars

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation


?
Mell (Racial)
Leisure Suits, Bunraku, Dolls, Succubus / Incubi
	There is no such thing as the ÅgPerfect Partner,Åh but the Malibu Pharmatronik corporation in the 
old world came close to making one in the form of the Mell. Mell are the civilian offshoot of the Adonis 
Super Soldier Program - Human 2, the Sequel, they promised. Though the advertisements end just as 
fast. What scattered programs showed a small set actually were shipped as Biodroid Companions, but 
the labs kept pumping out the genetic partner for clients that no longer exist.
	The Mell of today are perfect, too perfect, their skin too fine, voice too lovely, their feelings too 
rich. They fall in love quickly and their nature is to serve others, but endless copies will inevitably 
produce deviants. Deviants who can blend into a population with ease, their body and mind adapting 
to those around them. Perhaps all Mell are deviant in their own way, more so than others. 

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D10
Bravado
D12
Comprehensio
n
-
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1 / CL
Health
+1 / 4 CL
Karma
1
Potential
-50%
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Charm
People
Trained
Domestic Work
Cultural
Hobby
Empathy
People
Trained
Intelligence Gathering
Espionage & Rogue
Hobby
Wardrobe
Cultural
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
People
Trained
Language: Any
Cultural
Trained
Social Sciences: Any
Science
Trained
Masochist
ATB
ATB



 
IÅfm Just Mell - The Drifter has an uncanny ability for others to just . . . like 
them more. Every 2 Ranks they gain +1 to their Demeanor Rating. 

Built For Pleasure - The DrifterÅfs body, mind, breath, and soul have been 
created to appeal to others. Their Bravado is considered Augmented and 
they have +1d4 Bonus BRV every 4 Ranks.  
 
Starting Equipment Package: Civilian
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Perfection, Fashion, Genetic, Idealization

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Expert


?
Mutant (Qualifier)
Muties, Half-Shells, Genefreaks, Blessed Ones
	Even before the end of the world, the world had been playing with the human condition in 
more than one way - in the megacities and their ancient sewers there lied those with tainted blood, 
freaks born in labs and rejected. After the bombs fell these undergrounders emerged to be greeted 
by their even more deformed variants. Tainted Blood soon became Blessed Blood and soon the term 
ÅgMutantÅh was being used to refer to anyone with equal parts horrid conditions and blessings from on 
high.
	Drifters who were born as mutants often seek the victories and peculiarities of the world like 
anyone else, their body may churn with tumorous masses and arms twitch uneasily, but few can 
match their adaptability. However, others have only recently turned, their body betraying itself to 
distort in strange directions and force unnatural movements. Whatever the reason they wander, 
mutants are a fact of life in society, if not a welcome one.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+2 / CL
Health
+2 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
+20
ESP / MP
+1d4 / CL
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Disguise
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Sign Language: Local 
Mutant
Technical
Perfect
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Banter
People
Trained
Salvage Operations
Technical
Trained
LoganÅfs Loophole
ATB
ATB




New World Bible - Mankind v2
Mutants have developed into different sects 
defined by region, ideology, and past prejudices 
by others. Some weird common features of 
Mutant Communities across all of them . . .

Mutant Sign Language - Not every mutant can be 
lucky to be able to hear or body parts start to fail at 
inopportune times. Mutant Sign Language is unique to 
every community, but it's mandatory to learn.

Feral / Freak Animosity - Old World Mutations were 
primarily based on animal modifications - tails, ears, 
some senses or worse. These have persisted to the 
modern day and have a ÅgnobilityÅh over the others. 
Freaks are the new-worldÅfs monster with melting skin, 
corrosive blood, and other freakish designs. The two 
are almost always at odds, but begrudgingly live 
together. Perhaps out of spite.

Tainted Bloodlines - The DrifterÅfs blood tingles with mutagenic growths, 
expressing itself at seemingly random times. Every Rank the Drifter 
acquires 3 Species Rating Points to spend to further develop their 
mutagenic powers. If the Drifter is starting as a Mutant, they may  take 10 
Species Rating Points worth of mutations immediately.

Primordial - The DrifterÅfs body is in a constantly shifting state of being, as 
such the Drifter must roll on the Mutagenic Expression Chart every 3 
Ranks. If the Drifter begins as a Mutant, they must roll on the Mutagenic 
Expression Chart once. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 15 Credits

Signature Focus: Mutation, Changing, Evolution

Transfer Requirements: If the Drifter acquires a Mutation during play.

Standard Transfer : Any

Myrmidon (History)
Warchild, Chromedomes, Enforcers, Crusader
	War, war never changes. In the years following the Collapse, it's no surprise children would be 
born into the crucible of conflict. Then the dozen generations. Each one growing more and more 
adept of turning the young into warriors, killers, fighters without remorse. Isolated warrior cults raising 
their young as a communal group, military academies staffed by elite members of the warlord,  and 
even those raised by veterans of long forgotten wars, fearing what may be the next one.
	The Drifter was born into the life of a warrior, watching others be culled by the vicious march of 
the enemies at the gate. Why do they wander now? Perhaps that was their destiny all along to survive 
in the vast stretches of nothing punctuated by civilization. Perhaps they broke, that mental 
conditioning and rigor being drawn toward something else for a split second. Regardless of the 
reason, their instincts have honed them to this war, whether they wished for it or not. 

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D4
Bravado
-
Comprehensio
n
D10
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+1 / 1 CL
Karma
2
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
5


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Boot Camp
ATB
ATB
Land Navigation
Wilderness
Trained
Armory
Military
Trained
Scouter
Military
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Military
Trained



 
Ares Touched - The DrifterÅfs history has molded them into a trained killing 
machine. Every 3 Ranks the Drifter gains a new Weapon Proficiency.

Always Prepared - The Drifter has been training their entire life for a 
moment to use these skills.. At Rank 4, 6, and 10 the Drifter gains a new 
Combat Specialization.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 25 Credits

Signature Focus: Military, Regimented, Formal

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms
Mystic (Trait)
Earth Touched, Aetherborne, Witchblood
	Magic touches everyone differently, it flows nicely through some, while others it forces and 
surges through the bloodstream like a bullet. Mystics are those who have been submerged into magic 
from either a young age or through recent (often poor) experiences. Every Mystic takes the 
experience differently, others unknown of the future effects while others start cursing the nature of 
magic itself. Mystics themselves radiate power and in turn have the nature to see other phenomena 
easier.
	Mystics who enter the life of the Drifter do so out of their own volition, more of a fact of life than 
an active part about them. Some seek work as exorcists in a never ending war against magicians, 
others become magicians themselves to discover the source of their mystic powers. Regardless of the 
reason, the Drifter will have no shortage of work.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D4
Bravado
D6
Comprehensio
n
D8
Finesse
D4
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+2 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
3
Potential
+50 Magic
ESP / MP
+1d6 / CL
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Tear Knowledge
Science
Trained
Any
Magic (If Awakened)
Trained



Sense of Magic - The Drifter is trained in detecting 
and understanding the world of powers around 
them. When they take this Occupation, the Acolyte 
has Sense Magic (35+3%) allowing them to have 
the sixth sense to detect Magic Phenomenon. 
At CL 3 they increase their Development to +10% to 
their Sense of Magic as their bodies grow more 
accustomed to it. At CL 6, they Ace their Sense of 
Magic. 
.
Sparking Blood - The MysticÅfs body has been 
altered by magic and makes them prone to further 
development.
Åú	If the Drifter has Awoken their Potential - 
The Mystic gains an extra +[WIL] MP at 
Rank 4, Rank 8, and Rank 12
Åú	If the Drifter has Not Awoken their 
Potential - The Mystic has a +1 to Magic 
Resistance, this increases by +1 every 4 
Ranks.
Sparking Blood will lose its Magic Resistance 
bonuses, converting all Magic Resistance to MP.
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 50 Credits

Signature Focus: Mystical, Atheistic, Magic

Transfer Requirements: Be close to an Earthblood Geyser or Wound 
when it opens.

Standard Transfer : Adventurer or Magic

Noble (Trait)
Count, Duke, Lord, Brats, Silverbloods
	Where there are peasants, a lord must be nearby. Nobility in the age after the end of the world 
is a hard thing to muster. Older stories tell of courts of jesters and knights, but others begin to blur 
between royal titles and industrial surnames. The Nobility of the Post-Collapse are just as disparate, 
some live in makeshift castles and rule a fiefdom with their knights gilded in power armor, others are 
part of the aristocratic upper class, sipping on the blood of the working man, but the most prevalent 
are the modern Silverblood - wealthy preferred citizens of anywhere they go, owning land, territory, 
water, or anything else to survive in this new world.
	Why would any of these people take up the role of a Drifter. Most donÅft, living with the luxury of 
hiring them more often than not. The ones that do have something to prove, a reason to throw off the 
shackles of expectation, or more likely escaping ones they were never meant to remove.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D8
Bravado
D10
Comprehensio
n
D10
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 4 CL
Karma
2
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Literacy: American
Culture
Perfect
Memetics
Culture
Trained
Wardrobe
Culture
Trained
Diplomacy
People
Core
Etiquette
People
Core
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Dueling
Military
Trained
Empathy
People
Core
Command
People
Core
Charm
People
Core



Circles - The Drifter is particularly gifted in the art of Ågsociety,Åh 
mixing and mingling with power players and the movers of their 
circle. When this Background is selected, the Drifter writes down a 
ÅgCircleÅh who listens to them. They gain another Circle every 3 
Ranks.
Whenever they are interacting with a leader or official inside of 
their Circle., they gain a +1 to their Demeanor. This increases by +1 
every 3 Ranks.
If the Drifter begins as a Noble, they gain a Second Circle 
automatically.
.
A Name to Uphold - The Drifter has a legacy to uphold, something 
that they will either need to reject or embrace to finish their story. 
The Drifter gains a Trade or Lore Skill of their Choice specifically 
tied to their background. 
Every 3 Ranks, they may apply a new Skill Tag to that Trade or 
Lore Skill. If Noble was taken as the first Background - apply a Skill 
Tag automatically. 
Starting Equipment Package: High Society
 
Starting Wealth: 3d6 x 100 Credits

Signature Focus: Leadership, Majesty, Feudal, [Trade or 
Lore]

Transfer Requirements: Earn an official title or 
recognition as a ÅgPower PlayerÅh in society.

Standard Transfer : Expert
?
Null (Qualifier)
Skinwalkers, Psi-Hunters, Soul Vampires
	Once in a while, a large Psychic community will produce a Null. They will know almost 
immediately by the silence in the childÅfs mind and the darkness behind their eyes. Nulls are a mutant 
offshoot of Psychics, their mind a closed casket for the psychic phenomenon around them and 
developing an ability to hunt down their kindred better. Nulls can also be made from those who have 
had psychic brain damage, their body readjusting for a thirsting hunger to destroy those things or 
gnaw at the power that now dwindle
	A Null Drifter isnÅft an uncommon sight, the wandering vagabond who discomforts most 
everyone around them to some degree, a lethal disquiet that is only broken by the slow questions for 
work or waving around a flyer with some target they are hunting. Perhaps they are simply the 
quintessential human - driven to the edge of sanity.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D10
Bravado
-
Comprehensio
n
D10
 Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d4/ 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3  CL
Karma
0
Potential
-35% Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d2
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Psychics
Culture
Core
Intelligence Gathering
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Psychology
Medical
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic (If Awakened)
Trained
Scouter
Military
Core
Psycho Phenomenon
Science
Core
Tracking
Wilderness
Trained
Brain Fried
ATB Skill
ATB Skill



Sense of Psychic Power - The Drifter is trained in detecting and 
understanding the world of powers around them. When they take 
this Occupation, the Null has Sense Psychic Powers (35+3%) 
allowing them to have the sixth sense to detect Psychic 
Phenomenon. 
At CL 3 they increase their Development to +10% to their Sense of 
Psychic Powers as their bodies grow more accustomed to it. At CL 6, 
they Ace their Sense of Psychic Powers

Mindhunter - The Null has a natural affinity for dealing with their 
Psychic Kinsman. If the Target has ESP, the Null has a +1 to their 
Combat Checks against them. This increases by +1 every 5 Ranks. In 
addition, if the Null defeats a Psychic in Melee and kills them, they 
automatically perform an instant Devouring on the Psychic. 
. 
Disquiet - Nulls have a tendency to invoke a certain air of disquiet 
about them, others find them disturbing and others mystially 
enthralling. Their Demeanor decreases by two for everyone, but 
among Psychics it is decreased by four naturally. 
Emperor in Chains - The Null has closed off their Inland 
Emperor, restricting access to any and everyone. These 
effects occur every 3 Ranks.
Åú	Gain +1 to their Psychic Resistance
Åú	Impart a -10% on others reading their mind or 
interacting with them mentally.
Åú	Lose 1d6 Permanent ESP.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 25 Credits

Signature Focus: Void, Nothingness, Empty, Psychic

Transfer Requirements: Earn the Brain Fried ATB or 
gain a Scar from a Psychic attack.

Standard Transfer : Expert


New World Bible - Psychic Nulls
It may seem strange to witness a Psychic with Null Qualities, but it does occur in small populations or 
if the Null experiences especially harrowing events in their youth. To a Psychic Null, the world is a 
deafening silence, nothing comes in or out without forcing its way through the mental barriers that 
protect the mind. At first the frequent migraines and loss of limb function lead to many condemning 
themselves to a drugged life to keep one part of their mind in check.
Others who persevere live as a judas inside their own communities, the perfect hunter able to 
masquerade as a sheep for long enough to strike. Many hide it to fit in, live a normal life and resist 
the sadistic impulses that make them want to hurt their neighbors.

So instead many embrace their part in society. Wherever Psychics work, a Null will be among them, 
watching, waiting, hunting for one misstep from one of their kin to cut them down in a moment. 

?
Nutype (Racial)
Aspirants, Sparklers, Melts
	Psychics have a unique relationship among one another, physical connection is difficult, a 
sensation that rides the lightning of their spine and mental awareness as two people melt into one 
another in a psychic headspace rather than anything regarding traditional romance. Normally, 
children born of these unions grow up and often develop their Psychic Potential at a young age with 
their parents guidance. In recent years, Nutypes have begun to appear - children born of Psychic 
relationships that are gifted with their Psychic Potential unleashed. Their body and senses dulled 
through the constant reinforcement and support of their latent Psychic powers.
	Nutypes who strike out from the private psychic enclaves are oddities among their kin, taking 
up a life of the wandering vagabond is something reserved for more active people as their parents 
would say. But thatÅfs never stopped someone before, especially when they are as gifted as they are.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D12
Bravado
D8
Comprehensio
n
D4
 Finesse
D4
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 4  CL
Karma
3
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d10
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Psychics
Culture
Core
Psycho Phenomenon
Science
Core
Bodily Control
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained

 

Physical Enhancement Training - The Nutype has been using their psionics to 
enhance their physical form since they were children. The Drifter may spend 1 
ESP to increase Finesse, Hardiness, Power, or Speed by +1 for a Scene. They 
may add [Rank x 2 ] bonuses to these Checks.
The Nutype is still limited by their Potential during this time.

Cogito, Ergo Sum - The Nutype has two Latent Power during Drifter Creation. 
Every 3 Ranks they may develop an additional Latent Power or apply a Skill 
Tag to one they already possess. 

Nutype Physique - Nutypes are thin and lanky, a property of using their 
Psychic Powers since birth modifying their body. They automatically lose -2 to 
their Finesse, Hardiness, Power, and Speed.
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Psychic Powers

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Psychic

?
Primal (History)
Savages, Tribals, Ferals, Wild Men
	When society crumbles, the law of the jungle takes its place. When the world was lost in chaos 
and ash, those who had the know-how to survive off the land did so, while some became 
homesteaders and community builders behind thick walls and heavy guns, others reverted back to 
more pure society. ÅgThe SavagesÅh cover a large swath of people who have lived off the land longer 
than most and have adapted to the Errant Earth beside it - an individual who has been molded by the 
barbaric world they live in to become attuned to its wisdom and wrathful in their struggles.
	Primal Drifters are common, wandering types who appear in a flash, adorned in skin made of 
alien leather and tools crafted from the teeth of forgotten beasts. Civilization is weak to them, gaudy 
and worthless, strength is what matters and on the Errant Earth - perhaps they are right.

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D4
Bravado
D8
Comprehensio
n
D4
 Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 1  CL
Karma
2
Potential
+10 Magic
ESP / MP
+1d4
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Holistic Medicine
Medical
Hobby
Land Navigation
Wilderness
Trained
Monster Hunter
Military
Trained
Scouter
Military
Trained
Bushcraft
Wilderness
Trained
Naturalism
Wilderness
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Stealth
Espionage & Rogue
Trained



Sword & Bone - Primals have adapted to the natural world and the 
cheap gear it provides. Primals begin with Archaic Melee Weapon 
Proficiency or Archaic Ranged Weapon Proficiency.  
 
Starting Equipment Package: Wilderness
 
Starting Wealth: 1d3 x 5 Credits (of Barterable Goods)

Signature Focus: Savagery, Barbaric, Individual

Transfer Requirements: One-Year in the Wild, Cut off from Civilization.

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms


?
Professional (History)
They DonÅft Need Any, TheyÅfre just Professional.
	Some people are simply more cut out for positions than others, and anyone worth their weight 
in scrap knows it. It wouldnÅft take long for ÅgProfessionalsÅh to start reappearing after the apocalypse, 
each one touting some of their skills or abilities that theyÅfve mastered above everyone else. Doing their 
job better than most with a wink and a smile to boot. Not to say theyÅfre especially beloved or well-
known, some wish to even keep it that way depending on their position and way they want to do 
things. 
	Professional Drifters, an oxymoron in itself, is the roving mystery that appears one day in town 
to tell everyone about their secret way of doing things. Inevitably theyÅfll either be begged to stay or 
run out within the next few hours depending on their demeanor and profession. Though a Professional 
always knows when to beat a hasty retreat. 

ATTRIBUTE
Asset
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehensio
n
D6
 Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Trained
Any
Any
Hobby
Any 
Any
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby



Absolute Pro - Professionals are good, real good at their job. 
Every four Ranks, the Professional gains two Skill Tags they may 
apply to any Core Skills and one Skill Tag they may apply to any 
Trained Skill.

One-And-One-Third-Trick Pony - The Professional may 
increase one of their Core Skills by +10% every 5 Ranks. They are 
just that good at them. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Signature Skills

Transfer Requirements: 15 Core Skills

Standard Transfer : Expert


?
Psychonaut (Trait)
Lunatic, Psycho, Pan Head, Lightbulb
	Psychics have it easy, they have it simple, when they say jump other people do. Craving that 
kind of power is human, both deeply misleading and dangerous to think about. Some of these 
hopefuls, dreaming of the fast way to power, undertake a dangerous medical procedure, what that 
will awaken your Psychic Potential - for a cost of course. Fifteen plates are screwed in at certain points, 
each tagging a different neural center. Each plate conducts the impulses as performed by the 
Psychosurgeon himself, removing, editing, and breaking apart the mind to repair it again. If they come 
out of this surgery alive, they are Psychics, communicating with their Inland Emperor. If they do not, 
then perhaps they were never gifted to be one anyway.
	Drifters who have undertaken the Psychonaut procedures are psychics born into a new world 
with little explanation. They empower themselves greatly, but stagnate compared to "Natural" 
Psychics. Though this only feeds deeper into the delusions and madness that claims them all . . .


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
1
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d4
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Psychics
Cultural
Core
Lore: Psychonauts
Cultural
Trained
Shivers
Psychic
Core
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Bodily Control
ATB
ATB



The Troubles of a False Empire
	Psychonauts are gradually growing more insane as they 
develop, their body and psychic self tearing one another apart to 
adapt to the new reality. Starting at Rank 3, the Psychonaut develops a 
Thoughtform Personality that "takes over" the body for a time. 
Thoughtforms know about one another and their condition, they are 
still "The Drifter" in just a more enhanced or obsessive angle.
	While this illness of the mind haunts them, each Skill that 
manifests is immediately Aced and applies a second Skill Tag. 
	If the Psychonaut was chosen at Drifter Creation, they start 
with one Thoughtform manifested with its associated bonuses.

Dreaming of the Inland Sea -The Psychonaut adds one Charge Power  
every 3 Ranks. 

Amid Dreams of Amber - The Psychonaut adds an additional Latent 
Power starting at Rank 3 every 3 Ranks.
Hyper Invasive Cybernetics - The Psychonaut 
procedure is an incredibly invasive cybernetic event, 
The DrifterÅfs maximum Cybernetic Stress is halved.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond 
 
Starting Wealth: 1d12 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Psychic, Cybernetics, Cerebral

Transfer Requirements: Undergo the Psychonaut 
Procedure (Average cost 15,000 Credits legally).

Standard Transfer : Expert or Psychic



Religious (History)
Cultist, Follower, Devoted
	When the old world fell to ruin and disaster seemed to engulf the world, many turned to religion 
for salvation. In the time where science and fantasy mingle with one another, it's a miracle the faiths of 
the old world have persevered in their own equally mutated state. Whether they worship a new order 
to the Errant Earth or devoted themselves to one of the vestiges of the old are yet to be seen.
	Drifters hailing from religious backgrounds tend to be either Pilgrims or Heretics. Pilgrims seek 
the promised lands, following the tenets of their God or Masters for the higher purpose in life. Heretics 
are escaping from that promised land, not often by their own accord. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D8
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D4
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
4
Potential
+35
ESP / MP
+1d6
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Religion of 
Choice
Cultural
Core
Banter
People
Trained
Etiquette
People
Trained
Trade: Religious
Cultural
Hobby
Diplomacy
People
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic (If Awakened)
Trained
Theurgy
Magic (If Awakened)
Core
Any
People
Trained
Banter
People
Core
Etiquette
People
Core
Trade: Religious
Cultural
Core



Sign of the Holy Heretic - Regardless of their affiliation, 
the Drifter has learned a hand sign or other indicator to 
identify their faith to those around them. If this means 
anything is to be seen.

Rigorous Doctrine - The Religious Drifter has practiced 
their faith's doctrine. They may apply a Skill Tag to any 
Skill of their choice to represent this upbringing. This 
occurs every 4 Ranks

Anathema - The DrifterÅfs upbringing confronted them 
with the great Sin, their Anathema. Regardless of their 
affiliations, the Drifter has a -2 to all WIL Saves against 
the anathema, but a +2 to Combat Checks against 
them. The Drifter must choose 1.
Åú	Devils & Demons
Åú	Exos
Åú	Magicians
Åú	Mutants
Åú	Normal People
Åú	Outsiders
Åú	Psychics. 
Åú	Robots & Cybernetics
Åú	Undead & Vampires
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond 
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 Credits

Signature Focus: Religion, Faith, Mysteries

Transfer Requirements: Join a religious community and follow its 
doctrines for 3-Years.

Standard Transfer : Any


Robot (Racial)
Androids, Bots, Clankers
	Technology of the old world was built on the back of labor, and labor made way for 
automation, and automation gradually became dominated by robots. Robotics development in the 
Pre-Collapse was high-end and efficient, every robot had a purpose and each of them could do it to 
the best of their abilities. Specializing further and further, they eventually became detached from 
even needing a human to actually repair them or interact with. Toiling away at a job that no fleshy 
hands wanted, or could, do. When the Collapse occurred, some were drafted to fight while others kept 
going in the toil, working day and night on their assigned task. By the time any of them realized it was 
over, they didnÅft really care all that much.
	Robot Drifters come in a few varieties, mostly those with programming thatÅfs gone haywire or if 
theyÅfve reinterpreted their orders long enough to come to the conclusion that Ågdoing whatever they 
wantÅh is just as valid as their original purpose. Others are built to purpose, built to wander the world in 
search of a purpose they may not have. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die
Anima
Note
Bravado

Comprehensio
n

Finesse

Hardiness

Power

Speed

WIllpower



Endurance
Note
Health
Note
Karma
Note
Potential
Note
ESP / MP
Note
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
Note


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Robotics
Cultural
Perfect
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby



Robotica Sans Frontieres - The Drifter consults the Robot 
Creation System on Page (X) to create their customized 
Robotic Creation. This will determine all of the base Attributes 
that the Drifter has to work with.
After creating their idealized Robo Frame, the Drifter will then 
calculate how many Ranks they must remain as the Robot 
before being automatically Transferred out.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Robot

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation


Rogue (History)
Criminal, Scoundrel, Rascal, Miscreant
	There are three universal constants in the world - the rich get richer, the poor remain poor, and 
there is always someone trying to change that. Of course that doesnÅft always mean that they are 
selfish or wicked, many Rogues are branded as such for their views or beliefs. Infamy comes fast to 
those willing to subvert the natural order or speak out against perceived injustices. Many more find 
themselves taking up the life to survive, preferring to operate in the shadows and back alleys than 
present themselves as an easy target.
	Rogue Drifters are more common than not, pushed out of their homes or pursuing their own life 
of crime to further their ambitions. The term criminals are bandied about often, but some may 
embody the myths and legends of noble rascals who strike out at the powers that be. Though many 
more turn out to be the blackguards they are made out to be.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+2 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
5
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Concealment
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Disguise
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Sleight of Hand
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Stealth
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Banter
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Any
People
Trained



Hobo Code - The Drifter has developed a quick way to recognize and 
be recognized by those who are friendly to their cause. The Drifter 
knows the various symbols and markings that indicate loyalties. 

ÅgSo YouÅfve Heard About Me . . .Åh - Rogues and scoundrels are close knit 
when they need to be. The Rogue gains the Skill. Infamous at 20 + 3%. It 
may be used to manipulate others based on reputation or perceived 
reputation.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond 
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 Credits

Signature Focus: Stealth, Criminal, Secrets

Transfer Requirements: Become a Criminal and Learn the Hobo Code.

Standard Transfer : Any

Spartan (Trait)
Soldier Boys, Hardhats, Bloodgulchers
	The Spartan Procedure takes place over the course of three days. The first day is a cocktail of 
drugs and stimulants to open every kind of pain receptor, sense, and overall aptitude the recipient has. 
The second is the invasive cybernetic procedure to replace various internal organs with their 
enhanced SPARTAN variant to keep their body functional and enhance their physical abilities. The 
third and final day is psychological conditioning, running hundreds, thousands, perhaps even millions of 
rapidfire combat simulations through the exhausted mind of the agonized recipient. Few survive the 
full procedure, fewer come out as they were. What remains is a SPARTAN, a person molded into 
becoming a quintessential killer, their minds scrambled and replaced with little more than killing intent.
	Spartans arenÅft made for everyone, those who undertake the procedure serve their tenure in 
militaries or find themselves battling in Splurgoth Slave Pits until they free themselves. Their bodies are 
molded to kill, their minds honed to a knifeÅfs edge, a darkness behind their eyes. Power comes at a 
price, and many argue a Spartan has no soul. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
-
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D4
Finesse
D10
Hardiness
D12
Power
D12
Speed
D10
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d6 / 1 CL
Health
+2 / 1 CL
Karma
0
Potential
-75
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Scouter
Military
Core
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Monster Hunter
Military
Trained

 

Wired Reflexes - The Drifter increases their Personal Initiative by 
+1 every two Ranks. Their body grows more and more agitated as 
they develop in power.

SPARTAN KILLER - The DrifterÅfs body has been so fundamentally 
altered by the procedure, their Finesse, Hardiness, Power, and 
Speed are considered Augmented. 

Hyper Invasive Cybernetics - The Spartan procedure is an 
incredibly invasive cybernetic event, The DrifterÅfs maximum 
Cybernetic Stress is halved.

The Ripper - The Spartan gains a Combat Speciality every 3 
Ranks. If the Drifter begins as a Spartan, they gain one 
immediately.
The Voices  - The Spartan procedure is mentally taxing 
and damning. The Drifter has a -3 to Psychic and Magic 
Saves against Mental Effects.
 

Starting Equipment Package: Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 Credits

Signature Focus: Emotional Death, Warriors, Gladiatorial

Transfer Requirements: Undergo the SPARTAN Procedure 
(250,000 Credits ÅgLegallyÅh)

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms Occupation
Trog (Racial)
Neanderthal, Apeman, Feral Men
	With the collapse of civilization, comes the collapse of healthy people and society. Drifters born 
as Trogs are the degenerated offspring of old humanity. Their features and more feral, body much 
larger, but a reduced capacity to think and enunciate clearly.
	In a new world of monsters and magic, perhaps the primal man may do better than most. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D8
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
-
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D10
Power
D10
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+1d4 / 3 CL
Karma
3
Potential
Magic 
(Roll with +25)
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
5


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Iron Gut
ATB
ATB
Homesteading
Wilderness
Trained
Naturalism
Wilderness
Hobby 
Search
Espionage & Rogue
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Any
People
Trained
Any (If Awakened)
Magic
Trained



The Degenerated Man - Due to the TrogÅfs ÅgadvancedÅh 
physical makeup, they are considered to have Augmented 
Hardiness and Power. 

New World Adaptations - TrogÅfs are uniquely suited to 
survive in the savage and inhospitable places of the world. 
When first created, the Trog gains one New World Adaptation, 
then every 3 Ranks, the Trog chooses another New World 
Adaptations from the list below:
Åú	Savage Movement - The TrogÅfs body is uncanny in 
its movements, able to move through hostile, 
awkward or vertical terrain with ease as long as they 
are not wearing armor. 
Åú	Corpse Eaters - Desperate times call for desperate 
measures, the Trog may eat raw flesh of other 
creatures without feeling any ill effects.
Åú	Efficient Brain Processing - Rather than worry about 
complex thoughts, the Trog instead hyper focuses on 
what they actually care about. They may Ace any 
Skill they have.
Åú	Heavy Hands - The TrogÅfs unarmed attacks now 
deal an additional +3 damage. 
Åú	Inland Chieftain - As a survival mechanism, the Trog 
may immediately Awaken as a Psychic.
Åú	Advanced Grunting - Trogs encounter monsters and 
Exos frequently, they gain the Grunting (50 + 12%) 
Skill to perform rudimentary communication with 
creatures who do not speak the same language (or 
at all).

Starting Equipment Package: Wilderness Pack
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 Credits

Signature Focus: Markings, Totems

Transfer Requirements: Not Possible

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms, Adventurers, Magic (If 
Awakened), or Psychic (If Awakened)
 
Undead (Racial)
Corpse, Zombie, Shambler
	Death is a transitory for most, and unfortunately for the Drifter, it seems to not have stuck. 
Undeath is a condition in which an individualÅfs spirit is unable to successfully pass beyond the veil of life 
and death, instead being forcefully bound or reanimated in a method to keep them alive. Many see 
the walking corpses as an abomination against the world, and most would be correct, as many end up 
as little more than shambling hordes or half-sentient ghosts bound to a place.
	The rare few able to maintain their mind and body become Drifters out of necessity, whether 
they are seeking to live the life that was denied to them or find a method to finally die is up to them. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D12
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D4
Hardiness
D10
Power
D4
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D12


Endurance
+1d10 / CL
Health
+1d6 / 4 CL
Karma
Note
Potential
+35
Transfer
7
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Astra Knowledge
Scientific
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any (If Awakened)
Psychic
Trained
Any (If Awakened)
Magic
Trained

 

Bound by Rags & Bone - When first becoming an Undead Drifter, they must 
select the type of their undeath that they are bound to.
Åú	Revenant - The Drifter has been reanimated inside of their own 
body, ÅgpossessingÅh themselves effectively. They maintain all of 
their base skills and abilities. They take double damage from Fire 
and Lux. 
Åú	Spirit - The Drifter has possessed ÅgsomethingÅh to act as their host 
body, while they maintain their mind, they do not maintain their 
original form. They take double damage from Ice and Umbros.
Åú	Reanimator - The DrifterÅfs original mind has long since passed, 
now in an unfamiliar body and uncanny skills from a mind that has 
long since dissipated. They take double damage from Dust and 
Hex.

Fate of the Damned - While death has not claimed the Drifter, their fate is 
slowly winding down toward them based on their type.
Åú	Revenant - The Drifter has a starting Karma of 4
Åú	Spirit - The Drifter has Karma of 2, but may decouple themselves 
from their possessed body for [ANM] Minutes as an intangible 
spiritual entity. They have Supernatural Anima. Can be detected 
by mediums or those traversing Astral Space.
Åú	Reanimator - The Drifter has Karma of 0, they are considered an 
MD entity. They have Supernatural Hardiness and Power

Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 Credits

Signature Focus: Undeath, Spiritual

Transfer Requirements: Drifter is killed and then 
resurrected.

Standard Transfer :All


?
Union (History)
Civilian, Paragons, Renegades
	Justice and freedom are the essential components of any healthy society, where the Coalition 
believes that one cannot exist without the other, the Union offers an alternative. The Union is the 
bastion of freedom that the Errant Earth needs, a place where Exo, Magician, Psychic, or Drifter can 
find a home that accepts them for who they are and survive together. The Union offers a system for 
the people by the people, all of the people of the Errant Earth are welcome into the Union as long as 
they are willing to contribute and safeguard the values it holds dear.
	Drifters often find themselves drawn to the Union, a safe haven in the chaos where it doesnÅft 
matter what their sins were or where their fate may take them. Those coming from the Union itself 
are free spirits, upholding the heroic virtues that the Union was built on. No matter how contradictory 
they may be.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained
Armory
Military
Trained
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Literacy: American
Cultural
Trained
Memetics
Cultural
Trained
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Any
Scientific
Trained



Freedom IsnÅft Free - The Drifter is considered a member of the 
Union, affording them a few benefits and a warm meal inside of 
their borders. Of course, the Union always needs help.

War Against Ignorance - Every 3 Ranks, the Drifter may add a 
Skill Tag to a Skill or their Choice. Must choose a different Skill 
each interval.

Tomorrow Legion -  The Union prides themselves on protecting 
its people from the creatures of Errant Earth that would like 
nothing more than to kill them. The Drifter possesses the Guide to 
Monsters 4e (20 + 3%) Skill, allowing them to correctly identify 
monsters, threats, and other forces of nature in the world. In a 
rather - academic fashion.
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 15 Credits

Signature Focus: Adventure, Freedom

Transfer Requirements: Take the Oath to the Union

Standard Transfer : Any

?
Urban (History)
Rats, City Slicker, Urbz
	While the cities of the Errant Earth canÅft hope to match the supposed majesty of the Pre-
Collapse Era, the sprawling cityscapes of the new world are home to millions of souls banding 
together in their own makeshift way. Endless winding streets and dilapidated living conditions fit 
comfortably together with highrises and glittering facilities that seem to dominate the skyline. The 
lights and glamour of the city never truly faded, even if the smog and the people have changed.
	Drifters from the city are often looking for a way out, they know every street and every crevice. 
Can slip away unnoticed in a busy alleyway just as much as find themselves in the bustling city center. 
Many slum it with the poor, the real citizens of the city, the backbones, but knowing how to shake 
hands with the elite (or at least get within shanking distance) is always a talent needed to survive.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D4
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
4
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
2
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Banter
People
Trained
Labor
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
Memetics
Cultural
Hobby
Sleight of Hand
Espionage & Roguery
Hobby
Stealth
Espionage & Roguery
Trained
Streetwise
Espionage & Roguery
Core
Trade: Any
Cultural
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Etiquette
People
Trained
Any
Cultural & Domestic
Trained



Breath of the City - The Drifter has earned the Lore (City of 
Choice ) Skill as a Core Skill. This is their home city and the 
nuances it has.

Eye Them Up  - The Drifter can ÅgEye UpÅh a person, getting a 
basic read on how they are holding themselves and their rough 
threat to them immediately. At Rank 4, and every four Ranks 
After,  they may add a new aspect they can ÅgEye Up.Åh
Åú	Businesses
Åú	Infrastructure
Åú	Locations
Åú	Streets & Roads
Åú	Transport
Åú	Vehicles


Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: City of Choice, Streets, Gang

Transfer Requirements: Live in a City for 5 years.

Standard Transfer : Adventurer or Expert

?
Zanzibart (Racial)
Esoterics, Mysteres, Wyrdica
Å@Å@Å@Magicians are inherently a bit odd, their skills and abilities distance themselves from humanity in 
their own ways. Zanzibart are the natural endpoint of that distance. Being born inside or in the vicinity 
of an Earthblood Wound led the Zanzibart to awaken their Magical Abilities earlier than most, some 
developing the flow of magic in utero. Being filled with magical energy at such a young age, many 
would consider it a blessing for Ågultimate magic powerÅh though the addiction to Earthblood has altered 
their DNA and state of being fundamentally. Zanzibart are ÅgoffÅh in a few ways, their bodies are weak, 
their veins a chromatic array, and their insides a mess of magically induced tumors.
Å@Å@Å@Zanzibart Drifters often venture out due to their nature, magical communities are more likely to 
study them than to teach them. Even the term is little more than a mystery, part derogatory for being 
a mystery without an answer, the other being a mystery worth solving.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
-
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D12
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D4
Power
-
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D12


Endurance
+1d4 / 3 CL
Health
+1 / 4 CL
Karma
4
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
+2d6
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Any
Magic
Core
Blood Vein
ATB
ATB
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Magic
Trained
Meditation
ATB
ATB



Memories of Loss - The DrifterÅfs mind is filled with arcane 
symbols and a dreamless sleep of their own labyrinthine 
spellbook. Every three Ranks, the Drifter is able to Inscribe any 
Spell, Gesture, or Glyph to themselves. They increase their Base 
number of Inscriptions to be equal to their CL.

Burning Red  - The Drifter increases their total Heat by +2 every 
Three Ranks, Zanzibart are inherently able to control magic 
much more smoothly than others. If sporadically.

Palace of Infinite Ruby Red Glass - The Drifter struggles to 
sleep, only receiving half of their normal recovery in any rest 
circumstance. However, their Comprehension and Willpower are 
considered to be Supernatural.
Starting Equipment Package: Magician
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Magic, Zanzibart, Mutation

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Magic

?
Occupations

Acolyte (Education)
Priests, Wise Men, Pursuers, Secret Keepers, Storytellers
	The Drifter has sworn themselves to a cause or deed, taking up the mantle as a devoted 
follower of the doctrine they've set out for themselves. Whether this is pursuing martial brilliance, the 
true faith, or their own pursuit of power is irrelevant.
	Acolytes are wise in their ways and tend to view the world through the lense of their education 
or obsession. Almost all of them walk the path of finding Magic or Psychic powers to assist them, even 
if some of them never have the chance to develop it. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D10
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D4
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1 / CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
2
Potential
Psychic or Magic 
(Roll with +50)
ESP / MP
+1d6 / CL
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Any Science
Science
Trained
Banter
People
Trained
Domestic Work
Cultural
Trained
Lore (Any)
Cultural
Core
Lore (Region)
Cultural
Trained
Performance  
(Vocal or Instrument)
People
Trained
Literacy (American)
Cultural
Perfect
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Medical
Trained
Any (If Awakened)
Psychic
Trained
Any (If Awakened)
Magic
Trained
Any
Knowledge
Trained



Detection - The Acolyte has the Detect Potential (50+5%) 
Skill, allowing them to perform an Awakening Ritual on either 
Psychics or Magicians. If they succeed, they are able to 
awaken the dormant potential inside of the person, but a 
failure indicates an inability to Awaken, but detect its 
presence. 

Meditative Understanding - The AcolyteÅfs have trained 
themselves to meditate during their sleep to consult either the 
Inland Emperor or their Dreaming Self. They recover an 
additional +1d6 / 5 CL ESP or MP during their rest. If the 
Acolyte has not awoken their Psychic or Magic Potential they 
add an additional +2d6 to their Endurance instead

Starting Equipment Package: Scholar or Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Religious Icons, Ritualistic Chants, and Holy 
Vestments  

Transfer Requirements: Dedication to a Cause or Doctrine. A 
Lore Skill of at least 50%.

Standard Transfer : Magic (If Awakened), Psychic (If 
Awakened), Educated, or Expert. 

?
Adventurer (Adventurer)
Wanderers, Vagabonds, Drifters, Wayfinder
	Where there is the unknown, there are the adventuring souls who would find themselves 
wandering the Errant Earth in pursuit of finding it. The term ÅgAdventurerÅh is little more than a loosely 
organized group of wanderers with goals as vague as their namesake. They strike out from their 
homes and lives in pursuit of their own ambitions and goals. Often these end up as ÅgGet Rich or Die 
TryingÅh or ÅgBecome Famous,Åh alongside other lofty dreams of heroes.
	Drifters and Adventurers tend to become synonymous, the stereotypical Drifter is the 
wandering adventurer, roving from town to town picking up work when they can. Of course these 
adventurous types often find themselves in some sort of conspiracy, disaster, or situation that theyÅfll 
need to either solve or make a profit off of.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
4
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Land Navigation
Wilderness
Trained
Navigation
Technical
Trained
Radio
Electronics & 
Mechanics
Trained
Scouter
Military
Trained
Stealth
Espionage & Rogeury
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Espionage & Roguery
Trained
Any
People
Trained
Any
Electronics & 
Mechanics
Trained
Any
Technical
Trained


Danger Sense - Adventurers are tested and 
knowledgeable about how not to die violently on 
the Errant Earth. The Drifter adds +1 to their 
Personal Initiative every four Ranks.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 25 Credits

Signature Focus: Adventure, Heroism, Personal 
Effects

Transfer Requirements: None, anyone can be 
an Adventurer

Standard Transfer : Any



?
Artisan (Expert)
Craftsman, Artist, Journeyman, Artificer
	Creation is human in nature, the drive to apply brush to canvas, hammer to anvil, or knife to 
wood. While there are an infinite number of those who do so out of necessity or out of a drive to feed 
themselves, few pursue the work of ÅgartisanalÅh quality. Artisans are those who spend years perfecting 
their craft to a point where they can be almost considered masters of their art. Artisans are often 
content to live their life plying their trade and making a hefty living from their masterworks.
	So what drives one to become a Drifter? The truth is that many Artisan Drifters are on the hunt 
for the ÅgnextÅh great work, longing to find the secret to their masterwork, their final grand piece of art 
which only they can truly see. While they may not be gifted in battle, magic, or abilities, their ability to 
determine quality and actually fix things in the field are invaluable to many. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
-
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+2 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
4
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Trade: Any
Cultural
Core
Lore: Trade Secrets
Cultural
Core
Trinkets
Cultural
Hobby
Barter
People
Trained
Appraisal
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Cultural
Trained
Banter
People
Trained
Etiquette
People
Trained


Artisan Clique - The Artisan is dedicated to a particular circle based on their art. 
Each Artisan has a Clique which grants them extra Skills based on their preferred 
working environment.

Clique
Bonus Skills
Trade Examples
Artistic
Banter (Trained), Etiquette (Trained), 
Forgary (Trained), Wardrobe (Hobby)
Painting, Sculpting, 
Writer, Calligraphy
Civil
Architecture (Core), Earth Mechanics: 
Civil Infrastructure (Core)
Civil Engineer, Public 
Engineer
Tech
Robotics (Trained), Computer Use 
(Trained), Collapse Mechnika (Hobby), 
Computer Use (Trained)
Coding, Robotics, 
Cybernetics
Vehicle
Earth Mechanics: Vehicle of Choice 
(Core), Piloting: Choice (Core)
Land Vehicles, Aero 
Vehicles, Sea Vehicles
Writer
Literacy: American (Core), Language: 
Any (Core)
Playwright, Novelist, 
Game Designer

Starting Equipment Package: Civilian
 
Starting Wealth: 3d6 x 50 Credits

Signature Focus: Craft, Trade, Artistery

Transfer Requirements: Trade Skill and 
Lore: Trade Secrets at 80%.

Standard Transfer : Expert
Athlete (Adventurer)
B-Baller, Deadhead, Sportsball, Hyperfan
	Society is built on three sacred pillars: Money, Power, and Entertainment. The ones who 
embody all three of these are Athletes, famous inside their own circles and recognized nearly 
everywhere if they are famous enough. Whether they are taking up the ancient art of the B-Baller in 
the concrete courts, Deadball Players who are just as likely to get their head crushed than touch a ball, 
or simple gladiatorial arenas found scattered across the world. 
	Drifters who are, or were, Athletes take their skills and abilities theyÅfve gained in the field and 
now freshly apply them to ÅgrealÅh scenarios. Whether itÅfs smashing in heads or delivering the one-two 
piledriver with a flourish, the Athlete of yesterday is a modern warrior of today.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D4
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 1 CL
Karma
4
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Sport of Choice
Cultural
Core
Technical: Sport of 
Choice
Technical
Core
Sports Athlete
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Athleticism
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
Bodybuilding
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
Endurance Training
ATB Skill
ATB Skill


Exalted Athlete - At Rank 3 and every three Ranks 
after, the Drifter adds a Skill Tag to their [Lore: 
Sport of Choice] or [Technical: Sport of Choice].
 
Starting Equipment Package: Civilian
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 100 Credits

Signature Focus: Sport of Choice

Transfer Requirements: Join a Sports Team for 2 
Years

Standard Transfer : Adventurer or Man-At-Arms


?
Burnout (Magic)
Burner, Blood Magician, Scar Magician
	When a Magician pushes themselves to their absolute limits, theyÅfll start to burn away their 
Magical Abilities. Over time a Magician will find themselves able to use less of their abilities, forcing 
them to push harder to get that high they were once at, and soon all that remains is the unfortunate 
creature of the Burnout. Burnout Magicians are those who have exhausted most of, if not all, of their 
natural Magic Power at some point in their life - this may be for good or desperate reasons depending 
on the person. Rather than go quietly into the night, Burnouts push harder, squeezing the metaphorical 
blood from their stone body. At the rate theyÅfre going, theyÅfll never reach where they once were, but 
may be able to eke out some semblance of that power again.
	Burnout Drifters are simple - Magicians on a hunt to get their magic back. Most of the time 
theyÅfll find themselves coughing blood up on the side of a road or shooting up whatever they can get 
their hands on to get the same rush. But nothing will ever hit as hard as the first spell they cast.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
-
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
-
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D12


Endurance
+2 / 3 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Magic
Core
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Language (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Lore: [School of 
Thought]
Cultural
Trained
Field Medicine
Medical
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Tear Knowledge
Science
Trained
Blood Vein
ATB Skill
ATB Skill


Blood from a Stone - Burnout Magicians use their Endurance 
and Health as a medium to cast Spells, replacing the use of 
MP. Due to being a Burnout, the Drifter only receives +1d4 MP 
from any Background or Occupation per CL.

Tingling Sensation - The Burnout may recover their Magical 
Ability if they are able to reach 30 total Magic Power. They 
may immediately Transfer out at this point.

Gasoline Veins  - The BurnoutÅfs Heat is reduced to 0, 
converting all Strain into Burning Out or using Endurance / 
Health. Once they transfer out, they may remove this feature.

Personal Grimoire - The Burnout has their personal grimoire. If 
this is taken as a starting Occupation, the Drifter has 3 Spells, 3 
Gestures, and a Glyph. This Grimoire may contain three of 
each.
School of Thought - The Burnout has trained extensively in one 
of the many schools of Magic, they either acquire their School of 
ThoughtÅfs Magic Knowledge Skill as a Core Skill or apply a Skill 
Tag of their choice to the School of ThoughtÅfs Magic Knowledge 
Skill.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Magician
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Magic, Mysticism, Burnout

Transfer Requirements: Reach 0 Maximum MP via Burning Out

Standard Transfer : Magic
?
Burster (Psychic)
Boomer, Psychopsychic, Brainburster, Mind Melter
	Psychics are rightly feared by many, though few have earned their reputation as much as the 
Bursters. Where some Psychics develop their more subtle powers, the BursterÅfs subtle approach often 
involves blowing someoneÅfs head up or slicing someone in half with a psychically manifested blade. 
Among Psychics, Bursters are seen as being brutes or unrefined psychics, young and inexperienced 
Psychics that lash out with their powers rather than actually use them. Among themselves, Bursters 
are the only ones ÅgactuallyÅh using their powers, no manipulating, no trickery, just raw, unfiltered, power.
	Bursters who take up the mantle as a Drifter are usually outcasts in their own way. Walking 
away from a disaster they may have caused with a freakout, covered in blood from someone who 
got too close, or a plethora of other situations where the Burster ended up the last one standing. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D10
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
2
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d8
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Scouter
Military
Trained
Any
Psychic
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained
Bodily Control
ATB Skill
ATB Skill
Psycho Phenomenon
Science
Trained


Resonant Powers - The Burster develops a Resonant 
Power every four Ranks.

Charge Powers - The Burster develops a new 
Charge Power Order every two Ranks.

Latent Powers  - The Burster adds a new Latent 
Power every five Ranks.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Psychic
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Psychic Powers

Transfer Requirements: Awakened Psychic

Standard Transfer : Psychic


Changeling (Magic)
Werewolf, Therian, Skindancer
	Magicians who master the art of physical change are a rarity among the magical community, 
the physical body as it twists and contorts is a dangerous game that few wish to perform for fear of 
being ÅgstuckÅh in that form, or worse. Changelings are Magicians who have practiced and honed their 
ability to change their physical body, allowing them to transform their body into a chimeric form. 
Changelings who are able to perfect this ability are able to transform their bodies readily and actively 
to the situation, those who walk the path are often discovered as a gibbering mess ripping itself apart 
at the seams before expiring.
	Changeling Drifters practice and perfect their abilities, twisting and churning their form to suit 
their needs. If they are capable enough, they may even be able to reach that perfected form.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+2 / 2 CL
Karma
0
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
+1d10
Transfer
6
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Magic
Core
Astra Knowledge
Science
Trained
Language (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Lore: [School of 
Thought]
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Tear Knowledge
Science
Trained


Changeling Form - The Changeling may spend 10 MP to shift into 
their Changeling Form, they begin with 15 Species Points to develop 
their Changeling Form. It lasts for [WIL] Rounds during high stress 
situations (Combat, Intense Situations, Etc), or [WIL x  Rank] Minutes 
in low intensity situations. 
They are considered to be ÅgSustainingÅh this for purposes of Heat.

Chimera Soul - The ChangelingÅfs body is metamorphic, starting at 
Rank 3 and every three Ranks after, the Changeling chooses one of 
the following:
Åú	A New 15 Species Point Changeling Form - 10 MP
Åú	A 25 Species Point Warform - 20 MP
Åú	Trinket Mimicry, turning into a small object of Handheld 
Size - 5 MP
Åú	Permanency Form, a 5 Species Point Form that can be 
sustained for [WIL x Rank] Hours - 8 MP

Personal Grimoire - The Changeling has their personal grimoire. If 
this is taken as a starting Occupation, the Drifter has one Spell, 
Gesture, and a Glyph. This Grimoire may contain three of each.
School of Thought - The Changeling has trained extensively 
in one of the many schools of Magic, they either acquire their 
School of ThoughtÅfs Magic Knowledge Skill as a Core Skill or 
apply a Skill Tag of their choice to the School of ThoughtÅfs 
Magic Knowledge Skill.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Magician or Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Magic, Mysticism, Changeling

Transfer Requirements: Practice and Perfect the Changeling 
Arts from a Teacher - Dangerous and Probably Suicidal

Standard Transfer : Magic

Doctor (Expert)
Doc, Physician, Chop Shoppers
	As long as there are two people in the world, one will always try to kill the other, and someone 
will need to patch up that dying man. Doctors can be found in most every culture, from mystic 
shamans performing ritualized dances and applying poultices to the body to back alley chop shops 
with a man smoking a cigarette chopping someone open for a quick paycheck. Doctors heal people, 
keep them alive, patch them up, and do their best to make sure that there are still people fighting the 
good fight. At least if they pay the right amount.
	Doctors who take up the life of a Drifter often do so for the money, wandering healers going 
from place to place plying a simple trade that everyone seems to need, but ever has enough of. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Medicine
Cultural
Core
Traditional Medicine
Medical
Core
Any
Medical
Trained
Natural Science: Any
Science
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Empathy
People
Trained
Any
Medical
Trained
Armchair Scholar
ATB
ATB
Natural Science: Any
Science
Trained


Diagnosis - The Doctor has the Diagnosis (35 + 3%) Skill that allows 
them to determine the cause of pain, severity of illness, and potential 
treatment options by observing a patient. 

Medicos Sans Frontieres - The Doctor may establish a triage 
location, being able to treat up to [Rank+1] Patients simultaneously. 
They count as being in a Medical Environment.

Medical Practice - The Doctor has a particular focus on their talents 
and abilities. Every three Ranks they may apply a Skill Tag to any of 
their Medical Skills. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Professional
 
Starting Wealth: 2d6 x 50 Credits

Signature Focus: Healing, Medical, Doctoring

Transfer Requirements: Reach 90% in both a Natural Science and 
one Medical Skill of Choice.

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert


Entertainer (Expert)
Bard, Showgirls, Dancers, Singers, Clown
	Every single day people are miserable, their air is dirty, the danger is ever present, many starve 
in the streets and more are willing to become monsters for the promise of a better future. But 
everyone, from the most wicked black souled creature to the most noble heroes love a good show. 
Entertainers serve a simple part in society, they dance, they sing, they make sure people forget their 
problems for a moment and enjoy the fleeting seconds. The art of entertainment isnÅft simple side jobs 
or party tricks, itÅfs an art form to impress upon the crowd that life is easy and to relax to the siren song 
of their lilac voice - of course the Credits donÅft hurt much either.
	Entertainer Drifters are those seeking their next act, playing their bits and shows on the road 
with some armed escort or using the veneer of a renegade musician to further their own goals. 
Perhaps they just want to show the world that something beautiful is still possible, even for a moment. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D8
Bravado
D10
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d4 / 3 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
3
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Charm
People
Hobby
Lore: Any
Cultural
Trained
Memetics
Cultural
Trained
Performance: Any
People
Core
Wardrobe
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Banter
People
Trained
Dieting
ATB
ATB
Etiquette
People
Trained
LoganÅfs Loophole
ATB
ATB
Performance: Any
People
Trained
Streetwise
Espionage & Rogue
Trained


Perfecting the Craft - The Entertainer is always refining, fixing, 
and tinkering with their show. They may add a Skill Tag to any 
Performance Skill they have once every four Ranks. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Professional
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Performance, Art, Music,

Transfer Requirements: Reach 90% in a Performance Skill

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert


?
Esper (Psychic)
Psychic, Psycho
	When describing a Psychic, many people will rattle off their initial superstitions and beliefs. 
Taking enough of these truths, half-truths, and lies, one will end up with an Esper of some variety. 
Considered to be the ÅgDefaultÅh Psychic, Espers have walked the path of Psychic Development to be 
more even handed and balanced. Their Inland Empire is ordered and precise, ÅgaverageÅh to more 
extreme Psychics, but there is a detail that many others leave to favor the more fantastical. Espers 
may be average, but they are far from simple.
	Esper Drifters are often like any other wandering Psychic, choosing to go with the winds of fate. 
Hard to put any precise nature about them down, just the way they like it. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D12
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / 3 CL
Health
+1 / 3 CL
Karma
2
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d10
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Psycho Phenomenon
Science
Core
Identify Psychic 
Powers
Psychic
Trained
Shivers
Psychic 
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained
Bodily Control
ATB Skill
ATB Skill


Resonant Powers - The Burster develops a 
Resonant Power every three Ranks.

Charge Powers - The Burster develops a new 
Charge Power Order every three Ranks.

Latent Powers  - The Burster adds a new Latent 
Power every four Ranks.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Psychic
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Psychic Powers

Transfer Requirements: Awakened Psychic

Standard Transfer : Psychic


?
Explorer (Adventurer)
Wayfinder, Pathfinder, Scout
	When the end had consumed the world, it took many years before the first daring souls 
ventured beyond their isolated communities. Explorers have been a part of the Errant Earth since 
those days, venturing off in search of glory and profit, or at least to complete a job due to their 
knowledge of the area. Formal Explorers are sent out on commission to delve into ruins or scout out 
potential areas, those driven to the Explorer's life more actively can be part of the various woodsman 
living day to day, nomadic forces across the world, or perhaps just a bit of wanderlust haunting their 
dreams.
	Drifters and Explorers are often one and the same, brave enough to face the world in front of 
them yet prudent enough to know how to survive in whatever hell theyÅfve entered or at least return 
with something of value. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
4
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
2
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Architecture
Technical
Trained
Salvage Operations
Technical
Trained
Land Navigation
Wilderness
Core
Tracking
Wilderness
Hobby
Homesteading
Wilderness
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Collapse Mechnika
Electronics & 
Mechanics
Trained
Pre-Collapse History
Science
Trained


Familiar Territory - The Explorer has a familiarity 
with local territory, they gain the skill Lore: Local 
Area (Perfect).

Sure Step - The Explorer may increase their Pace 
by +1 once per Combat, they gain an extra use of 
their ability every 4 Ranks.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: Wilderness, Exploration

Transfer Requirements: None, anyone can 
become an Explorer. 

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation


Hunter (Man-At-Arms)
Bounty Hunter, Manhunter, Tracker, Hitman
	People run from their past, often faster with each step they take. But no matter what, their past 
is always catching up to them - often in the shape of a Hunter. Hunters venture out to find their targets 
and bring them back. Bounty Hunters track men, Monster Hunters track monsters, and Witch Hunters 
find the wicked and evil - every society has found the use of Hunters in them, though their profession is 
often distasteful to many. An essential part of society, yet ostracized from it for the exact reason their 
society calls upon them. A paradoxical career choice.
	Hunter Drifters are just living their natural endpoint, wandering justicars or murderers finding 
their endless quarries in a long string of jobs. Does society need them, or do they need society? 
Perhaps neither, perhaps both. A paradoxical outcome.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
-
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d6 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 1 CL
Karma
2
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Intelligence Gathering
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Monster Hunter
Military
Core
Scouter
Military
Core
Tracking
Wilderness
Trained
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Trade: Any
Technical
Trained
Lore: Any
Cultural
Trained
Memetics
Cultural
Trained


Accusatory Aim - The Hunter has their eye on their victim, 
they select a Target during combat. They deal [Rank / 4] +1  
Extra damage to that Target. 

HunterÅfs Mark - The Hunter has the HunterÅfs Mark Skill at (35 
+ 5%), they may select a quarry of their choice or apply a Skill 
Tag to a HunterÅfs Mark Skill they have. Hunters Mark is a 
reference of patterns, habits, and monikers to hunt down 
their mark more easily.
Åú	Criminals
Åú	Demons
Åú	Magicians
Åú	Psychics
Åú	Coalition or Union (or Faction of Choice)
Åú	Monsters
Åú	etc
Starting Equipment Package: Exile
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: The Hunter, HunterÅfs Quarry, Ideals

Transfer Requirements:  

Standard Transfer : Any Occupation


?
Infiltrator (Man-At-Arms)
Spy, Assassin, Hired Gun, Commando, Black Ops, Spooks
	Combat is about three things - knowing more than the enemy, overpowering the enemy, and 
only fighting when you absolutely know you can win. Infiltrators have a number of names, but they 
specialize in the acquisition and information of the core tenants of combat. Preferring to work alone or 
in small teams, Infiltrators rely less on raw combat ability and more on their ability to avoid fighting all 
together. Infiltrators can also be less organized, haphazard breaking & entering specialists with 
enough combat experience to make it out if it does go wrong.
	Infiltrators becoming Drifters is often a necessary evil for them, sometimes they learn too much 
and itÅfs the 9mm retirement plan, other times their work becomes too hard on the soul and they take 
to the road to ease their troubled heart. Of course others pick up the tricks, a valuable commodity in a 
world where there are haves and have nots. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D8
Finesse
D10
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D10
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
2
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Stealth
Espionage & Rogue
Core
Investigation
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Any
Military
Trained


Ambush Artist - The Infiltrator has trained rigorously for the perfect 
ambushing technique. During an Ambush, the Infiltrator gains a +3 to 
Combat Checks during their Turn.

Tactical Espionage Action - The Infiltrator is skilled in the art of 
deception and espionage, they may apply a Skill Tag every 3 Ranks to 
any Roguery & Espionage Skill. 





Starting Equipment Package: Exile, Soldier, or 
Destitute
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 30 Credits

Signature Focus: Stealth, Infiltration, Military

Transfer Requirements: Stealth at 75% or Greater, 
Military Combat Training

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms

?
Magus (Magic)
Magician, Sorcerer, Warlock, Elementalist, 
	A Magus is trained in the arts of magic efficiently, employing their own set of doctrinal 
obsessions and quirks to how they employ their spells. To many the Magus is the "default" Magician, 
though their elitist perspective over the "Deviants" of their society proves they may be right.
	Magus who become Drifters are either seeking to enhance their power or refine their skills for 
their position in society. However, their egos may get the better of them if left unchecked. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 4 CL
Karma
1
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
+1d10 / Rank
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Magic
Core
Any
Magic
Trained
Any
Any
Trained
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Language (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Lore: [School of 
Thought]
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Tear Knowledge
Science
Trained



Personal Grimoire - The Magus has their 
personal grimoire. If this is taken as a starting 
Occupation, the Drifter has 2 Spells, 2 Gestures, 
and a Glyph. This Grimoire may contain five of 
each.

School of Thought - The Magus has trained 
extensively in one of the many schools of Magic, 
they either acquire their School of ThoughtÅfs 
Magic Knowledge Skill as a Core Skill or apply a 
Skill Tag of their choice to the School of ThoughtÅfs 
Magic Knowledge Skill.

Metamagic - The Magus has trained themselves 
to understand how to maximize their GrimoireÅfs 
effectiveness. At Rank 4, 8, and 12 the Magus may 
add an additional Gesture or Glyph to a spell. 
 
Starting Equipment Package: Scholar or 
Magician
 
Starting Wealth:1d6 x 50 Credits

Signature Focus: Magic, Cantrips, Scholarship

Transfer Requirements: Awakened Magic, Astra 
Knowledge of at least 25%

Standard Transfer : Educated or Magic

 
Martial Artist (Man-At-Arms)
Templar, Street Fighter, Pugilist, Gladiator
	People fight for a multitude of reasons, some for money, others out of patriotism. Not Martial 
Artists, they live for the battle and spend their lives mastering the art of turning themselves into an 
advanced lethal weapon. Martial Artists find beauty and compulsion in the art of combat, practicing 
day in and day out to perfect their killing arts. Martial Artists may do so out of sport or hobby, casually 
mastering the methods of war - others treat their training as a rite of passage, a way for them to 
evolve and harness their inherent bloodlust.
	Martial Artists taking up the role of a Drifter is often a pilgrimage unto itself, whether itÅfs to 
spread their ÅgStyleÅh to the furthest reaches, protecting the honor of their training, or seeking to indulge 
in bloody fists. Martial Artists are professional killers at their core. And Drifters always need someone 
to kill for them, or do a bit of killing themselves. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D10
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+3 / CL
Karma
1
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
5


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Martial Art 
Specialization
Weapon 
Specialization
Weapon 
Specialization
Unarmed
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Athleticism
ATB
ATB
Bodybuilding
ATB
ATB
Masochist
ATB
ATB


Essential Combat Style - The Martial Artist is always honing their killing 
art - they may select two Martial Art Weapon Specializations if the 
Drifter selects this as their first Occupation. At Rank 2, 5, 8, and 11 the 
Drifter selects a new Martial Art Weapon Specialization to add to their 
Combat Style.

Lethal Weapon - The Drifter is a manmade lethal weapon, they gain 
the following benefits:

Techniques
The Drifter is allowed to use a new Martial Arts Move 
every 3 Ranks.
Lethality
The DrifterÅfs Punch and Kick Unarmed Attack increase 
their Damage Die by one step. Every 3 Ranks, they 
increase the Damage by +1.

Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d2 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: Martial Arts, Combat Arts, Physical 
Ability

Transfer Requirements: Three Martial Arts Weapon 
Techniques

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms

?
Mentalist (Psychic)
Inland Courtier, Knobheads, Delusional
	What people fear about Psychics isnÅft the explosive bursts of power or the stereotypical variety 
of Psychic, they fear the mindworm. They fear when theyÅfre part of the Chorus, nothing more, nothing 
less. Mentalists are Psychics who have honed their Inland Empire into a lucid dreamscape, molding 
and reshaping it to seep into the minds and thoughts of those around them. Their expertise comes 
from their affinity for Resonant Powers, slowly soaking in the mental energy of others.
	Drifter Mentalists rarely advertise their talents, preferring to use them to highlight other aspects 
about themselves or to further dive into the sickening truths of the human condition. Young Mentalists 
may be coming into their powers, an sordid state of affairs when the voices in their head wonÅft shut 
up.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D12
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D12
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d4 / 4 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Karma
2
Potential
Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d12
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Psycho Phenomenon
Science
Core
Identify Psychic 
Powers
Psychic
Trained
Shivers
Psychic 
Core
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Psychic
Trained
Purity of Mind
ATB Skill
ATB Skill


Resonant Powers - The Burster develops a 
Resonant Power every Two Ranks.

Charge Powers - The Burster develops a new 
Charge Power Order every Four Ranks.

Latent Powers  - The Burster adds a new Latent 
Power every Three Ranks.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Psychic
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Psychic Powers

Transfer Requirements: Awakened Psychic

Standard Transfer : Psychic

?
Mercenary (Man-At-Arms)
Freegunner, Killer-for-Hire, Soldier of Fortune, Free Fighter
	The Drifter is like many in the wasteland - a gun for hire. Taking up the job of a mercenary is 
familiar to any traveller, but to the Drifter, they've internalized the professional attitude and pursuits 
being a Merc means.
	Mercenaries come from many different backgrounds, some may be part of large companies, 
some dragged into the free soldierÅfs life out of obligation, others adopt the name to justify their 
murderous impulses. Whatever the reason, a soldier of fortune goes where the money is, regardless of 
the source. 


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D6
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+2 / CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
3
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
5


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Tactics
Military
Trained 
Any
Weapon Proficiency
Weapon Proficiency
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Medical
Trained
Any
Psychic
Trained
Any
Magic
Trained
Any
Knowledge
Trained



Mercenary Routine - Mercenaries are trained daily for their 
operations. If this Occupation is taken at Character Creation - 
add +1d4 Finesse, Hardiness, Power, Speed, or Willpower. 

Gifted Combatant - The Mercenary is a trained soldier and 
always developing their abilities and talents. Every 5 Ranks, 
the Mercenary may improve their Combat Training by one 
Step OR take a Weapon Speciality. 

Flair for Combat - Upon entering the Mercenary Occupation, 
the Character will gain a Combat Specialty of their choice. 
Starting Equipment Package: Outlaw or Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 2d6 x 25 Credits

Signature Focus: Weapons, Armor, Individuality, Landschknect

Transfer Requirements: None, anyone can be a Merc.

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms or Adventurer

?
Merchant (Expert)
Trader, Businessman, Travelling Salesman, Charlatan
	Wealth is the foundation of all that is good, evil, and most everything in between. Merchants 
can be found across the world, individuals who try to hawk their wares, sell what they can, and 
continue enjoying the Credits that flow. Though many who try their hand at business succeed, many 
more find themselves in poverty or getting shot by their creditors.
	Drifter Merchants are the brave few who wander the roadways in search of profit - of course 
theyÅfll always need to keep themselves safe from the monsters that be. Merchants handle the money, 
negotiate deals, and try to keep themselves alive.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D10
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+2 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
2
Transfer
3
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Lore: Local Market
Cultural
Core
Appraisal
Cultural
Core
Trade: Any
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (American)
Cultural
Perfect
Barter
People
Core
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
People
Trained
Any
Cultural
Trained
Technical: Financials
Technical
Trained
Gambling
Espionage & Rogue
Trained



Cutting Deals - The Drifter may increase the sales cost of 
goods they are selling by 5%. At Rank 3, 6, and 9, this increases 
to 10%, 15%, and 20% respectively. 

Backpacker - Merchants have to keep their supply on them 
and most everything else. The Drifter increases the number of 
Belt Items they have every 3 Ranks and the number of Pack 
Items they have with every 5 Ranks. 

Starting Equipment Package: Merchant
 
Starting Wealth: 2d10 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Wealthy, Merchandising, Corporate

Transfer Requirements: Barter at 90% or Greater

Standard Transfer : Adventurer, Educated, or Expert

?
Novice (Legacy)
Student, Neophyte, Apprentice
	Everyone starts somewhere, and the Novice is at the start of their adventure and learning the 
ropes of the life ahead of them. Often Novices are younger and inexperienced, relying on a little luck 
and their own innate characteristics to push them to greater heights. Whether they are students of a 
new path in life or simply a kid realizing their destiny, being a Novice is rarely an easy start, but through 
the crucible of conflict can a Novice earn their stripes.
	Novice Drifters are trying to find their footing in an unfamiliar world and situation, relying on 
those around them to help them out and keep them alive. Novices learn quickly though, picking up 
what they see and what they know as fast as they can. They may just need every advantage they 
can get. 


ATTRIBUTE
Youngster
Student
Anima
D6
D6
Bravado
D4
D6
Comprehension
-
D6
Finesse
D6
D6
Hardiness
D4
D6
Power
D4
D6
Speed
D6
D6
WIllpower
D6
D6



Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
+1 / 2 CL
Potential
-
-
ESP / MP
-
-
Karma
6
5
Transfer
Note
Note
Learning Rate
1
1


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Core
Any
Any
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained



Learning The World - The Novice is learning the secrets of the universe and 
everything else around them. When the Novice reaches Rank 5, they gain +2% 
Development to three Skills of their Choice.

Not A Student Forever - A Novice may only become Rank 5, after which they 
must transfer to a new Occupation. When this occurs, they are considered to be 
Rank 3 in their new Occupation. Learning the ropes is pretty helpful.

Improvising My Future - At Rank 5, the Novice may choose any Skill of their 
choice to make it a Core Skill. They may also select a Weapon Proficiency, 
Weapon Specialization, or Basic Combat Training. 

Starting Equipment Package: Any
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: Newbie, Student, Youth

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer 
Into

Standard Transfer : Adventurer

?
Pilot (Expert)
Driver, Road Warrior, Rover
	On the Errant Earth, the man behind the wheel is more free than anyone else. Often coming 
from scrappier backgrounds, Pilots are professionals behind the wheel, preferring the comfort of their 
customized ride than being around others. Whether they are couriers between communities, soldiers-
of-fortune-on-wheels, or a simple nomad beyond the skies is up to them. Though separating a Pilot 
from their vehicle is a sure fire way to get a right hook in the face.
	Pilot Drifters are somewhat inevitable, mobility is the DrifterÅfs creed and being able to haul their 
supplies around makes Pilots an invaluable part of any team. Whether they enjoy the open road or 
working a job, a man and his wheels will rarely part softly.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+2 / CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
Note
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Pilot: Any (+10%)
Technical
Core
Daredevil
Technical
Trained
Earth Mechanics: 
Vehicle of Choice
Electrical & 
Mechanical
Trained
Lore: Vehicle of 
Choice
Cultural
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Electrical & 
Mechanical
Trained
Earth Mechanics: 
Vehicle of Choice
Electrical & 
Mechanical
Core
Pilot: Any
Technical
Trained



Grease Lightning - The Pilot begins with a Vehicle of their 
design at cost - the more they spend on their initial Vehicle 
(including Hardpoints and Weapons) it will reduce their total 
Karma and Transfer potential.

Total Credit Cost
Transfer
Karma
50,000 or Less
3
4
50,000 to 75,000
4
3
75,000 to 100,000
5
2
100,000 to 125,000
6
1
125,000 to 150,000
7
0
150,000 to 200,00
8
-1
200,000 or More
10
-3

Speed Racer - Pilots push their vehicle to their limit and their 
abilities alongside it - every 3 Ranks they apply a Skill Tag to a 
Pilot, Earth Mechanics, or Daredevil Skill.

Starting Equipment Package: Handyman or Professional
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Vehicles, Cars, Piloting

Transfer Requirements: Pilot Skill of at least 90%

Standard Transfer : Adventurer, Educated, or Expert


?
Scholar (Educated)
Erudite, Lorekeeper, Teacher, Dangerous Minds
	Knowledge can be just as dangerous as any other kind of weapon and the acquisition of 
knowledge is rarely simple. Scholars are those who dedicate their life to finding, preserving, and 
distributing knowledge to those in need of assistance or their expertise. Often coming from scholastic 
backgrounds, Scholars can be as formal or informal as they wish. Regardless of their focus and 
affiliation, Scholars push the limits of discovering the past and forging a new future. Though the forces 
that be tend to look down on those trying to help the downtrodden.
	Drifter Scholars are well educated in comparison to the usual lot, focusing more on the minute 
details of life and trying to use their knowledge to help those around them. Where others are practical, 
Scholars have the answers to lifeÅfs stranger, more mysterious, and often unknown questions. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D6
Power
D6
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d3 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3  CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
5
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Cultural
Core
Any
Science
Trained
Armchair Scholar
ATB
ATB
Literacy (American)
Cultural
Perfect
Lore: Any
Cultural
Core
Memetics
Cultural
Core
Pre-Collapse History
Science
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Trained



A Little Bit of Everything - Scholars learn things and things 
cover a wide variety of information and half-truths acquired 
over their research and observations. Scholars gain the Trivia 
Skill (50 + 3%) to know small factoids about various situations. 
Nothing too deep, or even true, just things.

Teacher & Pupil - Scholars hunger for knowledge and 
educating others, it takes the Scholar 1d6 + 2 Weeks to teach 
someone a new Hobby Skill of any Skill they are Trained or 
have a Core Skill in. They may learn a new Skill every two 
Ranks using the same timetable with others who are Trained 
or Core in a Skill.

Starting Equipment Package: Delver, Scholarship, or 
Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d4 x 5 Credits

Signature Focus: Scholarship, Education, Learning

Transfer Requirements: 25 Total Skills

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert

?
Scientist (Educated)
Researcher, Deviant, Educator, Philosopher
	The future will be written by the victors, but if the current situation continues perhaps it will be 
written with sticks and stones. Scientists are those who bear the torch of the future, educating 
themselves through rigorous schooling or their own intensive training to learn about the secrets of the 
universe. Often they take on practical sciences, essentials for the here and now, but others have 
begun delving into the complexities of thought and nuanced understanding of others.
	Scientist Drifters are those looking to complete their thesis, or at least get the necessary 
information to start it. What they lack in physical strength or firearm skill, they make up for in 
knowledge about the fundamentals of the world - math, physics, biology, and even more esoteric arts 
on the nature of man, exo, and horrifying monster before them.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D12
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d2 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 3  CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
4
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Science
Core
Any
Science
Core
Any
Science
Trained
Trade: Researcher
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (American)
Cultural
Perfect
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Science
Trained
Cram School
ATB
ATB
Armchair Scholar
ATB
ATB



Field of Research - Scientists have a field of research, the 
focus of the Scientists efforts and abilities that they seek to 
learn and understand. Select 6 Skills, each of these Skills are 
now considered Learned Skills with the Trained Rank.
The Scientist may develop these Skills as if they were any 
other kind of Skill. At Rank 4, 8, 12, 16,and 20, the Scientist may 
add an additional Skill or promote one of their Field of 
Research Skills to Core.


Dedicated Researcher - Honing their skills is the ultimate 
expression of the scientific method. Every Three Ranks, the 
Drifter may assign a Skill Tag to any Science Skill they possess. 
When a Science Skill reaches 100%, they gain a +1% to their 
Development on it. 
 

Starting Equipment Package: Scholarship
 
Starting Wealth: 1d20 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Scholarship, Education, Learning

Transfer Requirements: Two Science Skills at 90%+

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert

?
Scoundrel (Adventurer)
Smuggler, Mafioso, Gangster, Syndicatalist, Vigilante
	ThereÅfs something appealing about living on the edge of good and evil, a darkness where light 
seems to only glimpse in occasionally. Scoundrels are those who arenÅft ÅgevilÅh per say, but rely on vices, 
violence, and crime to get what they want. They may be bandits who take from the rich (others) and 
give to the poor (themselves), to professional smugglers who work the waterways, all the way to 
white collar scumbags who skim just enough off the top to get by.
	The Scoundrel seems like a natural for the life of a Drifter, keeping to the darkness keeps 
Scoundrels alive after all. But many have their hustle, their turf, or their obligations to keep themselves 
grounded. Those who take to the Drifting path are independent operators between work, or worse, 
someone who ran from the life .  

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1d4 / 2  CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
4
Transfer
5
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Trade: [Criminal 
Enterprise ]
Cultural
Core
Lore: [Criminal 
Enterprise]
Cultural
Trained
Stealth
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Streetwise
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Banter
People
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Wardrobe
Cultural
Trained
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Charm
People
Trained
School of Hard Knocks
ATB
ATB



ÅgSo YouÅfve Heard About Me . . .Åh - Scoundrels and Rogues are close knit when 
they need to be. The Scoundrel gains the Skill. Infamous at 20 + 3%. It may be 
used to manipulate others based on reputation or perceived reputation.

Bastard Arts - The Scoundrel expands their various operations as they develop. 
Every 3 Ranks, they may apply a Skill Tag to one of their [Criminal Enterprise] 
Skills or gain a new Trade or Lore of a new Criminal Enterprise that is 
considered Trained.

 

Starting Equipment Package: Bandit or Professional
 
Starting Wealth: 1d6 * 5

Signature Focus: Crime, Enterprise, Criminal Enterprise

Transfer Requirements: Lore and Trade of a Criminal Enterprise at 75%

Standard Transfer :Adventurer or Expert

Senator (Expert)
Politician, Advocate, Spokesman, Charlatan
	As long as there are people, there will be those guiding the masses. Whether they are on the 
podium or influencing the crowds behind the curtains - Senators can be found in nearly every crevice 
of society in at least one way. Senators are those skilled at their art of the deal, speaking with their 
people and able to influence those willing to assist them. Senators build alliances, dismantle rivals, and 
oftentimes move and shake behind a desk with fewer curt words than any soldier could.
	What drives a Senator into the DrifterÅfs life? Respect and leadership are earned in the crucible 
of conflict and many wonÅft follow someone without good reason. Senator Drifters are charismatic 
souls who work their magic with silver tongues and grand ambitions. Anyone can be convinced, 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D10
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+2 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2  CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
4
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Memetics
Cultural
Hobby
Wardrobe
Cultural
Trained
Banter
People
Core
Etiquette
People
Core
Diplomacy
People
Core
The Look
ATB
ATB
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Literacy: Any
Cultural
Trained
Investigation
Espionage & Roguery
Trained
Language: Any
Cultural
Trained
Command Structure
Military
Trained
Any
People
Trained
Social Sciences: Any
Science
Trained



Circles - The Drifter is particularly gifted in the art of Ågsociety,Åh mixing and 
mingling with power players and the movers of their circle. When this Occupation 
is selected, the Drifter writes down a ÅgCircleÅh who listens to them. They gain 
another Circle every 3 Ranks.
Whenever they are interacting with a leader or official inside of their Circle., they 
gain a +1 to their Demeanor. This increases by +1 every 3 Ranks.
If the Drifter begins as a Senator, they gain a Second Circle automatically.

House of Cards - The Senator is always playing their enemies and allies against 
one another, every 2 Ranks, the Senator increases the total number of Contacts 
they have by +1. Every 4 Ranks they may promote a Contact to a Confidante, 
doing so treats the Confidante as if they were a Circle.
 
Starting Equipment Package: Civilian, Exile, or High Society
 
Starting Wealth: 1d100 * 15

Signature Focus: Society, Circles, Influence

Transfer Requirements: Two People Skills at 75% or Greater

Standard Transfer : Expert

?
Soldier (Man-At-Arms)
Veteran, Trooper, Commando, Ranger
	Courage, duty, honor, these are the words that a Soldier lives by. Where others fight out of 
necessity, the Soldier stood besides others fighting for higher ideals or beliefs, preferring to fight 
against the enemy of the state or their people. Soldiers are trained rigorously, their regimen 
demanding their ability to fight, survive, and thrive on the battlefield where every second counts. Less 
developed societies may also have Soldiers, brutal fighters with a brutal swing and war call.
	Soldiers who take up the DrifterÅfs life are often those whose service is at and end - willingly or 
not. Maybe theyÅfve retired, opting to spend what time they have now wandering the world, others 
desert their post, saving their own hide over their fellows. Others are ÅgSoldiersÅh in name only, fighting 
for the only cause that really matters - themselves. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D6
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D6


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+1 /  CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
3
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Armory
Military
Trained
Monster Hunter
Military
Trained
Scouter
Military
Trained
Tactics
Military
Hobby
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
MIlitary
Trained
Banter
People
Trained
Land Navigation
Wilderness
Trained
Gambling
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Cooking
Cultural
Trained
War Veteran
ATB
ATB



Drilled and Ready - The Drifter increases their Combat 
Training by one step every 5 Ranks. 

THIS IS MY GUN! - The Drifter has been trained extensively in 
various firearms to defend themselves and their people, every 
3 Ranks the Drifter gains an additional Weapon Proficiency of 
their choice. 

 
Starting Equipment Package: Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d20 * 10

Signature Focus: Soldiery, Military

Transfer Requirements: Military Combat Training

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms


?
Summoner (Magic)
Caller, Binder, Manipulator, Servant
	Magicians specializing in the binding arts are referred to as Summoners, a misnomer derived 
from their appearance and often their own beliefs. When a Summoner creates an entity, they are 
binding a fragment of their soul to bind them together, forging a seemingly unbreakable bond 
between the Summoner and the Familiar itself. While vids, comics, and stories tell of demonic 
conjurer's plucking demons and monsters, the truth is that Summoners are just those with the 
knowledge to exert their influence over others, dominating other creatures and binding them to their 
will.
	Summoners arenÅft as beloved inside their own communities, a fear of being bound to another 
(real or imagined) forces many who learn the binding arts to wander. Whether they are looking for a 
place to call home or to control a power entity they meet, is yet to be seen. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D12
Finesse
D4
Hardiness
D4
Power
D4
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 4 CL
Karma
0
Potential
Magic
ESP / MP
+1d10 / Rank
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Magic
Core
Empathy
People
Trained
Astra Knowledge
Science
Core
Language (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Literacy (Magician)
Cultural
Trained
Lore: [School of 
Thought]
Cultural
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Tear Knowledge
Science
Trained
Any
Magic
Trained


Starting Equipment Package: Magician
 
Starting Wealth: 1d20 * 10

Signature Focus: Soldiery, Military
Transfer Requirements: Astra 
Knowledge at 85%

Standard Transfer : Magic



Familiar - The Drifter has bound an entity to 
their service, this Familiar is a loyal servant and 
vessel for the DrifterÅfs power. The Drifter is a 
Companion with two Concepts of 12 and 8 
respectively. Wherever the Familiar is, the 
Drifter may cast Magic as if they were there 
instead. 
If the Familiar dies, the DrifterÅfs soul rends their 
body violently. The Drifter may resummon their 
Familiar and set their Heat at 10 for a Week. If 
the Drifter is ever burnt out, dies, or is rendered 
incapacitated, their Familiar is unsummoned 
and they must restart it.
Every 3 Ranks, the Drifter may increase a 
Concept of their Familiar by +1 or add a new 
Concept at 5.

Living Tether Conduit - The Drifter acts as a 
conduit for magical energy, allowing their 
summons to flow in and out of their body and 
tether them to reality. Every 4 Ranks, the Drifter 
may choose a new Living Tether Conduit perk.

Bind Another 
(15 MP)
The Drifter binds an entity to their service, they create a Companion 
with a Concept of 10 and 6. They are bound for [Wil * 5] Minutes.
Bind the Weak 
(5 MP)
The Drifter creates a Tiny Creature with a Concept of 10, They are 
bound for [WIL * 10] Minutes
Bound to 
Service (X MP)
The Drifter subjugates a magical creature or creature emboldened 
by Earthblood if they fail at a WIL Save. They take control of the 
Creature for [WIL * 2] Minutes. Mana Cost is equal to double the 
highest Concept.
Empower 
Familiar
The Drifter increases one of their FamiliarÅfs Concepts by +2, increase 
their total Health to [Largest Concept * 3].
Familiar Mimic 
(10 MP)
The Drifter creates an identical copy of their Familiar to control for 
[WIL * 10] Minutes.
MD Familiar
The DrifterÅfs Familiar, despite all appearances, is considered an MD 
Entity, allowing them to ignore Standard Damage entirely.
My Will Alone
The Drifter permanently binds one of their Summons to their will 
permanently, they may take on a Summon or create a new Failiar.

Technician (Expert)
Developer, Engineer, Mechanic, Tinker
	When something is broken, someone will try and fix it. Technicians go by many names and have 
adopted many titles over the years, but they are the creators of the future and maintainers of the 
now. Technicians are the catch-all term for mechanics, engineers, architects, all the way to the most 
primitive inventors and creators. Valued across all of society in one way or another, Technicians can 
be found in positions of authority to little more than backwoods dirt farmers trying to eke out a living.
	Drifter Technicians are wandering tinkerers and creators, using their skills and knowledge to 
either build a better future or at least find a way to keep what they have functional. They may be 
formal and professional, they may be little more than a mysterious inventor trying to find a reason to 
keep going. Regardless of the reason, theyÅfre out on the Errant Earth trying to survive.

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D8
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D6
Speed
D4
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d4 / 2 CL
Health
+1 / 2 CL
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Karma
3
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Trade: Any
Cultural
Core
Earth Mechanics: Any
Electrical & Mechanic
Core
Salvage Operations
Technical
Trained
Technical: Any
Technical
Core
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Electrical & Mechanic
Trained
Fortification
Military
Trained
Architecture
Technical
Trained
Piloting: Any
Technical
Trained
Electric Warfare
Military
Trained
Technical: Any
Technical
Core



Always Something To Fix - Technicians are drawn to broken 
things almost, The Technician adds their [Rank * 3] to all Armor 
and Weapon Repairs. 

Working With Their Hands - The DrifterÅfs skill with their hands is 
unmatched when they have the time to focus. They add a Skill 
Tag to any Trade, Technical, or Mechanics Skill every 3 Ranks.

 
Starting Equipment Package: Technician or Handyman
 
Starting Wealth: 1d100 * 5

Signature Focus: Technical, Design, Mechanics

Transfer Requirements: Trade and Technical Skill in Machinery 
or Other Mechanical Focus at 75% or greater. 

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert


?
Vagabond (Adventurer)
Wanderer, Shadow,  Survivor, Scout, Hobo
	When the world fell in fire and ruin, the few who survived did so out of their own strength and 
will. Vagabonds are the natural continuation of that burning spirit to survive, wanderers by their own 
admission. The Vagabond typically comes into town, buys meager supplies before departing, never 
saying more than a few words and being a faint memory to those who saw him. Outside the bounds 
of civilization, the Vagabond has the survival skills to navigate the Errant Earth successfully, only to 
wander into and repeat their process.
	Drifters and Vagabonds are often one in the same, chance travellers on the road to something 
vaguely over the next horizon. While Drifters march with a purpose, the Vagabond wanders for their 
own accord, the two uniting to satisfy those two realities at once. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D8
Bravado
D6
Comprehension
D10
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d4 / CL
Health
+1d2 / CL
Potential
+20
ESP / MP
-
Karma
3
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
3


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Basic Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Trinkets
Cultural
Hobby
Stealth
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Field Medicine
Medical
Trained
Naturalism
Wilderness
Core
Homesteading
Wilderness
Core
Bushcraft
Wilderness
Trained
Salvage Operations
Technical
Trained
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Wilderness
Trained
Any
Espionage & Rogue
Trained
Language: Any
Cultural
Trained



Survivor - Upon taking this Occupation, the Drifter adds +2 to 
their Hardiness. If they started as a Vagabond, this increases to 
1d4+2.  

Burning Will to Survive - The Vagabond refuses to die that 
easily, every 3 Ranks, they may choose one of their Attributes 
and have a +2 to all Saves using that Attribute. This is not 
Psychic or Magic Resistance and can only be taken once per 
Attribute.

 
Starting Equipment Package: Vagabond
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 * 10 Credits worth of Baubles

Signature Focus: Nature, Practical, Survival

Transfer Requirements:  None, anyone can be a Vagabond.

Standard Transfer : Educated or Expert

?
Initial Karma
	Karma is the measure of the weight of oneÅfs soul, the experiences both good and bad, and the 
drive to make a change in themselves and the world around them. In Errant Earth, Karma is the 
measure of adaptability that a Drifter has during their life. Karma is built up from each of the 
Backgrounds and Occupations that the Drifter has, being acquired and built up across their 
experiences.
	The DrifterÅfs initial Karma may be spent to acquire new Skills and abilities for the Drifter, 
enabling them to be better and shape their destiny more than those who have little Karma. As the 
Drifter increases their Character Level, they will be able to use their Karma more to improve 
themselves, but at a slower and costly rate. During this initial expenditure of Karma, the DrifterÅfs 
weight is being lifted off their shoulders as they go adventuring. Any remaining Karma is added to the 
DrifterÅfs total Karma for improvements.

Karma Perk
Karma Cost
Description
Add +1d10 ESP
2
The Drifter develops their ESP further, increasing it by +1d10. Requires 
Awakened Psychic Powers.
Add +1d10 MP
2
The Drifter develops their MP further, increasing it by +1d10. Requires 
Awakened Magic Powers.
Add +1d4 Health
2
The Drifter increases their Health by +1d4.
Add +1d6 Endurance
1
The Drifter increases their Endurance by an additional +1d6.
ATB Booster
2
Increase an Attribute by +1 up to a maximum of 18.
ATB Enhancer
2
Increase an Attribute by +1 up to a maximum of 24.
Awaken Magical 
Potential
3
The Drifter automatically awakens their Magical Potential if they are able.
Awaken Psychic 
Potential
3
The Drifter automatically awakens their Psychic Potential if they are able.
Change ATB to Favored 
Average
4
The Drifter changes one of their Attributes to the Favored Average .
Combat Speciality
2
The Drifter adopts a Combat Specialty of their choice.
Companion
4
The Drifter creates a Companion with a Concept at 10.
Cybernetic Intake
1 / Cybernetic 
Stress
The Drifter increases their Cybernetic Stress, allowing them to take on more 
intensive and invasive Cybernetics.
Increase Rank
4
The Drifter increases the Rank of a Background or Occupation.
New Core Skill
4
The Drifter adds a new Core Skill.
New Hobby Skill
1
The Drifter adds a new Hobby Skill.
New Trained Skill
2
The Drifter adds a new Trained Skill.
Reroll Attribute
1
The Drifter may reroll one of their Attributes entirely.
Species Rating
1 / Species 
Rating
The Drifter adds +1 to their total Species Rating, allowing for more Mutations or 
developing their Exo.
Weapon Proficiency
3
The Drifter adds a new Weapon Proficiency of their choice.
Wheels
1 / Chassis 
Rating
The Drifter may acquire a Default Vehicle equal to Karma Spent.
Standard Combat Skill
5
The Drifter increases their Combat Skill by one step up to Military Combat 
Training
Advanced Combat Skill
10
The Drifter increases their Combat Skill by one step up to Elite Combat 
Training
Derived Attributes
	Derived Attributes are determined after the Drifter has determined their Backgrounds and 
Occupations, Attributes, Skills, and Abilities.
The Strength Modifier
Each DrifterÅfs Strength Modifier is the average of 
their [Hardiness] and [Power] to determine how 
physically capable they are.

Strength
SD Bonus
MD Capable
Melee To-Hit
0 - 3
-3
No
-4
4 - 6
-2
No
-2
7 - 9
-1
No
0
10 - 12
0
No
+1
13 - 15
+2
No
+2
16 - 18
+4
No
+3
19 - 21
+6
Yes
+4
22 - 24
+8
Yes
+5
25+
+10
Yes
+6

Demeanor Rating
A Drifter's Demeanor is a measure of the default 
attitude many people will have toward the 
Drifter. Demeanor is equal to the average of 
[Bravado] and [Willpower]. 

Demeanor
Bonus
Contact
Attitude
0 - 3
-6
1
Repulsed, Horrified, Hated
4 - 6
-3
1
Disgusted, Distanced, 
Pained
7 - 9
0
2
Plain, Neutral, Uninterested
10 - 12
+1
3
Interested, Understood
13 - 15
+2
4
Friendly, Kind, Welcoming
16 - 18
+3
5
Charismatic, Magnetic
19 - 21
+4
6
Contagious, Empathetic
22 - 24
+5
7
Lovely, Enrapturing
25+
+6
8
Divine, Uncomfortable


The Reaction Modifier
The DrifterÅfs Reaction Modifier is a reflection of 
their quick reflexes and speed itself. They will 
find the average of their [Comprehension] and 
[Speed] to determine the result. 

Reaction
Initiative Bonus
Pace
0 - 3
-6
.25 
4 - 6
-3
.5
7 - 9
0
1
10 - 12
+1
2
13 - 15
+2
2
16 - 18
+4
3
19 - 21
+6
3
22 - 24
+8
4
25+
+10
5

Glimmer
The DrifterÅfs Glimmer is their Magic and Psychic 
Signature, an ÅgAuraÅh they produce for others to 
detect if they can. Glimmer is equal to the 10Åfs 
Place of both ESP and MP . 

Glimmer
Detection
Description
0
-10 / -100%
None / Flickering 
1 - 2
0
Throbbing
3 - 4
+1 / +10%
Faint / Subdued
5
+2 / 20%
Dim / Vibrant
6
+3 / 30%
Glowing / Present
7
+4 / 40%
Fiery / Imposing
8
+5 / 50%
Luminous / Resonant 
9
+6 / 60%
Bonfire / Majestic
10+
+7 / 70%
Inferno / Raging


Extra Sensory Power / Magic Power
Drifters who are capable of using Psychic Powers 
or Magic possess Extra Sensory Power (ESP) or 
Magic Power (MP).
ESP is the measure of control that a Drifter has 
over their Psychic Powers and abilities. When 
actively using them, the Drifter reduces their 
available ESP until they are able to rest.
MP is the amount of power that a Drifter has to 
use and project their Magical abilities. Whenever 
they use Magical Abilities or wish to enhance 
them, they will be tapping into their MP, restoring 
it when they are able to rest. 

Extra Sensory Power (ESP)
Magic Power (MP)
[ANM x 2] 
[WIL x 2]

Psychic / Magic Resistance Saves
Drifters who are exceptionally talented 
Magicians or Psychics can inherently protect 
themselves better against their diametric foe 
easier than most.
The Psychic / Magic Resistance bonus is 
generated when a Drifter unlocks their Psychic or 
Magical Potential - granting them extra defense 
against their opposite force. This is directly 
added to an Attribute when a Psychic or Magic 
Save is called to resist their effects.

Psychic Resistance is based on Willpower
Magic Resistance is based on Anima.

ATB
Bonus
0 - 6
None
7 - 12
+1
13 - 18
+2
19 - 24
+3
25+
+5



Size
Each Drifter begins at ÅgAverageÅh height unless 
specified by Background.

Small
Average
Big
Child
Adult Human
Bigfoot


Alignment
The DrifterÅfs moral alignment reflects their 
nature and demeanor toward others. Alignment 
is on a 5x4 Grid, representing Morality and 
Ethics. The Drifter chooses their own alignment 
or at least their perspective on themselves. 


Ontological
Realist
Relativist
Nihilist
Paragon
Messiah
Missionary
Vigilante
Lone Ranger
Lawful
Adjudicator
Officer
Citizen
Bureaucratic
Arbitrary
Egoist
Prideful
Self-Centered
Anarchist
Miscreant
Psychopath
Syndicate
Punk
Sociopath
Aberrant
Devil
Maniac
Sophist
Defiler

Paragon
Morally Virtuous, Helps Others Unprompted
Lawful
Morally Good, Helps Others with Reward
Arbitrary
Morally Neutral, Follows their Whims
Miscreat
Morally Wicked, Takes Selfish Action with 
Reward
Aberrant
Morally Evil, Takes Hostile Actions Unprompted.

Ontological
Complete Ideological Belief of Morals
Realist
Morals are objective, true, and tangible.
Relativist
Morals are malleable with society and situation.
Nihilist
Morals are fake, personal ideology trumps all.

Lift / Carry / Jump

Capacity
Calculation (Lbs)
Penalty
Light
(POW+HRD/2) x 5
None
Medium
(POW+HRD/2) x 10
-2 / -10% Penalty to Action
Heavy
(POW+HRD/2) x 
12.5
-4 / -20% Penalty to 
Action



Over Head
Heavy x 1.5
-3 NSR / -4 / -20%
Off 
Ground
Heavy x 2
-5 NSR / -6 / -30%
Push
Heavy x 4
-8 NSR / -8 / -40%



Vertical 
(Stand / Run)
(POW / 5) | (POW / 3)  Ft. Jump
Horizontal 
(Stand / Run)
(POW - 6) | (POW - 2) Ft. Jump


Packs & Credits
	When the Drifter chooses their Background and Occupations they will have access to a number 
of Packs and their starting Credits. Packs are a set of items and gear that the Drifter may pick up with 
useful supplies for their journey. A Drifter may select one Packs of their choice of any of their 
Backgrounds and Occupations they have access to. Drifters may instead exchange a Pack for Credits 
instead, often less than the total amount but being able to purchase what they wish.
	Finally, each Drifter has a set of starting Credits from their Backgrounds and Occupations. The 
Drifter adds all of their available Credits from each of the Backgrounds and Occupations they have. 
They may choose to save these or spend them in the equipment section.

New World Bible - Credits & Currency
Money makes the world go round, and the Great Lakes Confederacy needed to establish a base 
currency for their new ÅgFederation.Åh The GLC, Great Lakes Credit, is technically a digital currency 
with a backing of the energy of Stony Point, making it a popular coin for most people in the region. 
Actual ÅgCurrencyÅh is still used, basic script, sparkly coins, scrap, or whatever can be used to indicate 
value. The barter economy is still actively used in most places.

Background Occupation Mergers
	During their creation, the Drifter may acquire several skills or abilities that cross over with one 
another. Taking all of these abilities and merging them together is as simple as following this chart. 
The Best Variant refers to the Background or Occupation with the highest starting Development Rate 
(Hobby, Trained, or Core) or the highest quality (Military Combat Training vs Basic Combat Training). 
If the Drifter has chosen Skills as part of a Background or Occupation, such as Professional, they may 
apply these bonuses as well.


Best Variant
Merger
Attributes
Base
Base
Skills
Open at Base Value
Add +5/10/15%  to Base Value
Endurance / HP
Standard
Standard
Starting Credits
Standard
Standard
Starting Karma
Standard
Standard
Weapon Proficiency
Gain WP as Stated
Select any WP
Combat Training
Gain Stated Combat Training
Take an Additional Weapon 
Specialization
Weapon 
Specialization
Gain Stated Weapon Specialization
Select any Weapon Specialization
Endurance and Health
	Drifters have an unnatural belief that they are in fact immortal, something that is written on 
more epitaphs than one would think. Drifters get hurt, bloodied, maimed, and most other kinds of 
trauma the Errant Earth has to offer. To reflect the DrifterÅfs ability to absorb and take punishment, 
they have their total Endurance and Health.
	A DrifterÅfs Endurance measures their ability to shrug off injury, the near misses, scratches, 
bruises, and flesh wounds that stack up before they take the debilitating injuries tied to their Health. 
When Endurance reaches 0, the Drifter's Health will start being targeted, should they reach 0 Health, 
the Drifter will be killed. 

Endurance
2d6  + HRD (+1d4 / CL)
Health
HRD

Å@Å@Å@A Drifter will recover their Endurance after being able to rest for the night or being patched up 
in a medical tent. A normal human being will recover +1 Health every day, and +2 Health if they are 
under medical care. 
	If a Drifter would fall below 0 Health, they may instead take a Scar. Scars mitigate the damage 
they would have taken, but cause a permanent injury. Scars may be expressed as a -1 to an Attribute 
or narrative debilitation  (often requiring surgery or cybernetics to mitigate the loss of a limb or 
worse). If a Drifter were to ever take 5 or more Scars of any variety, they will be immediately 
removed from play due to the severe injuries and trauma they have endured.
 
	Endurance and Health are both considered to be Standard Damage meaning that if they are 
hit with a Mega Damage Weapon, it is immediately reduced to 0 (potentially fatal or risking an arm). If 
a Drifter would ever be considered to be a Mega Damage Capable individual through Mutations, 
Cybernetics, or their own physiology, then their Endurance and Health would work normally upon 
being hit with Mega Damage Weaponry - not being able to be pierced except by excessive varieties 
by Standard Damage sources however.
	To mitigate this, the survivors of the Collapse have retrofitted old designs and made their own 
new armors and weapons in the ancient arms race of armor and weaponry. Most Armor is 
considered to be Mega Damage capable except in deliberate circumstances. This is all a casual way 
to remind every Drifter, no matter how brave or mighty - always take care of your armor.
?
Skills
	Skills represent a host of knowledge, talents, and abilities that a Drifter has developed or picked 
up over the years through their education, life experiences, and natural development. Each Drifter has 
a number of Skills determined by their Backgrounds and Occupations, split up Core, Trained, Hobby, 
Perfect, ATB, Combat Training, Weapon Proficiencies, and Combat Specialties.
	Core, Trained, and Hobby Skills are the sliding scale of in depth information of focus the Drifter 
has placed on different skills. Core Skills are fundamental to the DrifterÅfs life and training, developing 
faster than their Trained Skills. Hobby Skills develop slowly, and sometimes not at all, as they are 
picked up aspects rather than developed talents. Perfect Skills are those which are innate to the 
Drifter and nearly impossible to fail unless in dire circumstances or extreme complications - such as 
being able to speak their native language or know about where they grew up.
Å@Å@Å@These Skills follow the same format with a [Base Skill Value] + [Development]. 
Å@Å@Å@The Base Skill indicates what the Skill begins at when it is first opened by the Drifter. For 
example, the Investigation Skill has a Base Skill Value of 35%. The Development of the Skill is the 
percentage next to it that indicates its growth everytime the Drifter increases their Character Level. 
The Investigation Skill has a Trained Development of +7% - so if a Drifter has the Investigation Skill at 
35% and increases their Character Level, they would now have 42% as their Investigation Skill. 
Å@Å@Å@During Drifter Creation, each of the Drifters will apply their Development when their Skill is first 
opened up . If the Drifter opens a Skill up later through either spending Karma, Learning 
Opportunities, or Education - they will begin at the Base Skill Value and begin improving the next 
Character Level.
Å@Å@Å@Core, Trained, and Hobby Skills will indicate the rate of development for the Drifters. Core 
Skills develop the fastest, with Hobby Skills developing the slowest. Improving and refining Skills later 
on, such as promoting a Hobby Skill into a Trained Skill, would improve the Development but not make 
up Åglost experienceÅh of previous levels. After a Skill reaches 100%, Development slows dramatically, as 
the Drifter is no longer learning how to improve themselves, but instead refining their craft to avoid or 
mitigate potential disasters. 
Å@Å@Å@ATB, Combat Training, Weapon Proficiencies, and Combat Specialties do not have a [Base 
Skill] or [Development], instead when they acquire this Skill they will have all of the benefits it entails 
immediately. ATB, or Attribute Bonus, Skills improve the DrifterÅfs Attributes through rigorous 
commitment or focus, but do little else outside of it. Combat Training is how skilled the Drifter is in 
combat, directly correlating to a number of Combat Actions they have. Possessing a Weapon 
Proficiency allows a deeper understanding of particular weapons for special combat actions. A 
Combat Speciality is an art that the Drifter has developed to improve their combat ability, but not 
directly correlate to an increase in actions or immediate weapon benefits. 

The Wayward Notes	- ÅgUse AsÅh
The Game Master may allow the Drifter to use one skill ÅgasÅh another. Most Skills do not allow this by 
their nature - but various mechanics and other details may assist. If this is the case, it will either half 
the value of the Skill for the attempt or take a penalty of -20 / -40 / -60% as normal.

	During the DrifterÅfs life and their adventures 
on the Errant Earth, they may begin to internalize 
deeper meanings to their Skills and start applying 
Skill Tags. A Skill Tag is a refinement of the SkillÅfs 
abilities and nature, improving them or allowing 
the Drifter to perform tricks to keep them ahead 
or enable them to push beyond their limits.
	Each Skill may take as many Skill Tags that 
are applied to them, with each possessing a 
different function. Particular Drifters may even be 
a master in several Skills with all of the proper Skill 
Tags and abilities.

Skill Tag
ABV.
Description
Aced
AC
The Drifter adds +25% to the Skill, +3% 
Development, and +1% after they reach 
100%
Assuranc
e
AS
The Skill will only fail with a 100 instead 
of a 99 or 100.
Fated
FA
When the Skill rolls ÅgDubsÅh (44,55,66,etc) 
they have a Critical Result for an 
enhanced effect .
Reliable
RE
The Drifter may reroll a Failed Check 
and accept the second result.
Take20
T20
If the Drifter is Safe, Focused, and has 
the Time - they may ÅgTake 20Åh for the 
Check to treat it as if they rolled a 20 .


The Wayward Notes - Special Benefits of Skill Acquisition
Certain Backgrounds or Occupations may possess a Skill written as [Skill (+10%)] or similar. This 
indicates that the Drifter will add an immediate +10% bonus to the Base Skill Value when they open 
the Skill. 
Later on through dedication, education, or other Ågless savoryÅh techniques the Drifter may gain a flat 
bonus to a Skill as well. This is added directly onto the Base Skill Value. 

The Wayward Notes - Open Skills
An Open Skill refers to a broad skill set that covers many different fields. Rather than have an 
individual entry for each of them, an Open Skill may take its palace. When the Drifter takes an Open 
Skill, they will define what it actually is for purposes of refinement. The Natural Sciences is an Open 
Skill - allowing the Drifter to have Natural Sciences: Biology or Natural Sciences: Chemistry based on 
their preferences. The Drifter may take multiple of the same type of Open Skill if they wish, allowing 
them to be multi-disciplined inside of a singular field. 
The Game Master has the final call in regards to what are appropriate Open Skills.
?

The Wayward Notes	- Common Knowledge
Throughout the game there may be moments when ÅgCommon KnowledgeÅh Checks come into 
play, often small questions that can be immediately answered by those Ågin the know". A Drifter has 
a Common Knowledge ÅgScoreÅh equal to the Rank of Relevant Backgrounds, Occupations, and the 
10Åfs Place of their Skill that is most appropriate. Common Knowledge does not require a roll or it to 
be even strictly calculated - it is a shorthand.

0
1 - 4
5 - 7
8 - 10
11 - 15
16+
Nothing
Simple Facts
Complex Facts
Trivia
Industry Knowledge
Insider Knowledge
ÅgThe Crimson Crow is a Big 
Gun.Åh
ÅgThe Crimson Crow 
Revolver uses special parts, 
itÅfs hard to repair.Åh
ÅgThe Crimson Crow needs 
its chamber and barrel 
cleaned at the same time.Åh
ÅgThe Crimson Crow is 
technically the third variant 
of the same type of gun.Åh
ÅgCrimson Crows made out 
of Texas, though they get 
distributed everywhere.Åh
ÅgCrimson Crow uses the 
same parts as everyone, 
they just claim that to make 
them more expensive.Åh


Confederate Records - Skill Development Index
The Skill Development Index is a personal system to determine how Skills are built using the Base 
Skill Value, Development, and such. Every Skill is placed on an imaginary 4x4 matrix of Difficulty of 
the Skill and the Learning Complexity of the Skill. The Difficulty is how immediately complicated or 
strange the skill is - Electronic Warfare has a Base Skill Value of 20% due to it being a specialist skill. 
The Learning Complexity is how gradual one can develop and learn about the Skill over time, the 
Disguise Skill is easy to learn (+7% Trained) due to its nature.
Thus a Skill thatÅfs ÅgSimple to learn, Hard to MasterÅh (Simple Specialist Skill) would be 50% + 3% (50% 
Base Skill Level + 3% Development at Trained).

Simple
Advanced
Specialist
Lost
50%
35%
20%
5%

Basic
(Core / Trained / Hobby / Post 100%)
Complex
(Core / Trained / Hobby / Post 100%)
Specialist
(Core / Trained / Hobby / Post 100%)
Esoteric
(Core / Trained / Hobby / Post 100%)
+12 / 7 / 3 / 3 %
+10 / 5 / 1 / 2 %
+8 / +3 / 0 / 0 %
+4 / 0 / 0 / 0 %


The Wayward Notes	- Standard Skills
Standard Skills come by default of every Drifter, not 
needing to be written down unless the PL wishes.

Åú	Language: Regional (Perfect) - The GLC has this 
as American though a PC may choose Algonquin
Åú	Lore: Home Region (+20% / Core) - Selecting a city 
or region where the Drifter calls home. For the 
GLC, this can be Stony Point, Bay City, Saint Marie, 
Chigeon, or Lakeside. 
Åú	Relevant Campaign Skills - These could be 
universal Lores, Trades, or Information that fits the 
campaign that the GM wishes.

Cultural and Domestic Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Appraisal
Ability to appraise good and understand 
value.
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Cooking
Ability to prepare food and serve it.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Domestic Work
Ability to perform basic domestic duties such 
as cleaning, housework, and maintaining a 
home.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Language (Open)
Ability to speak a language of choice.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Literacy (Open)
Ability to read and write a language of 
choice.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Lore (Open)
Ability to understand and be knowledgeable 
about a certain subject.
50%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Memetics
Understanding the current ideological trends, 
imagery, and cultural icons.
50%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Trade (Open)
Ability to practice a dedicated trade or have 
insider information about the industry.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Trinkets
Ability to shape simple materials into art 
pieces or enable them for other uses.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Wardrobe
Ability to understand latest fashion trends, 
making an appearance of dignity and honor.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%

Open Skill Examples
Language
Literacy
Lore
Trade
American 
(Spoken in most of the greater North American area)
Burger American
(A simplified version of the American alphabet)
Great Lakes Confederacy
(Knowledge of the surrounding area of the Confederacy)
Plumber
(Nothing is handier than being a plumber)
Algonquin
(Mostly spoken by the native tribes, easy to learn for Exos)
Southside Script
(The official script for the Cedar Point School of Magic)
Chigeon
(History and updates from Chigeon and the Tear)
Electrician
(Electrical work is tough work, advanced varieties more so.)
Canuck
(Spoken in the deep north past the Claybelt line)
Ecclesiastical Latin
(The written tongue of the North American Papacy)
Tear Scholastics
(In Depth knowledge of how Tears function)
Bounty Hunter
(Understanding of hunter targets, payments, and guilds)
Trade V
(The newest trade tongue that others are trying to make)
Binaric-26
(Able to efficiently read Binaric-26 for old Robots)
Riverliners
(Gambling Syndicate operating around the Confederacy)
Fermi Plant Operator
(Member of the Fermi Brotherhood to maintain Stony 
Point)

New World Bible - Languages & You
The more things change, the more things stay 
the same. Language not being one of them. 
400 Years since the end of the world has 
morphed dialects to something hard to 
compare. ÅgAmericanÅh and ÅgEnglishÅh have 
deviated from one another to the point of 
being little more than basic comparisons. 
Though in this new world of ours languages 
such as Algonquin, various Exo Languages, and 
even some more secretive trade tongues 
among Magicians and Psychics. 

Electronics and Mechanics Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
3D Modeller 
Understanding how to draft Standard 
Template Files (STF) and work on art pieces.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Collapse Mechnika
Knowledge of Pre-Collapse Technology and 
how to actually fix it.
5%
+10%
+5%
+0%
Computer Use
Knowledge of how to use computer terminals 
and write basic programs.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Cybernetics
Understanding the fundamentals to design, 
repair, and fix cybernetic pieces.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Demolitions
Ability to produce and detonate explosive 
compounds and substances.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Earth Mechanics (Open)
Ability to fix, refine, build, and perform 
repairs on various vehicles and instruments.
50%
+10%
+5%
+0%
Exo Mechanics
Deeper understanding of how any of this Exo 
Stuff actually works. 
5%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Radio
Practice and skill with radio operations, 
repair, and tuning.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Robotics
Functional knowledge of how to design, 
repair, and maintain robotic entities.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%


Open Skill Examples
Earth Mechanics
Aeronautic Vehicles
Aquatic Vehicles
Civic Engineering 
Industrial Equipment
Terrestrial Vehicles
Vertical Armored Cavalry


The Wayward Notes - Field vs Garage Repairs
When a Drifter needs to make repairs they will either be repairing in 
the field or at a garage. 
Field Repairs are ÅgDefaultÅh assuming the Drifter has the appropriate 
tools on them. If they donÅft they may still attempt with a [-40%]. 
Successful Field Repairs restore +1d6 Hull Damage.
Garage Repairs are when all the necessary supplies, tools, and space is 
available for the mechanic. They may add +40% to their Skill or 
attempt a similar Skill Check but restore +3d6 Hull Damage.


?
Espionage and Rogue Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Concealment
Ability to conceal objects on their person.
50%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Disguise
Ability to masquerade and hide among 
others in costume.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Forgary
Ability to fake documents, create false 
documents, or spot forgeries.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Gambling
Ability and knowledge of gambling games, 
techniques, and strategies.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Intelligence Gathering
Ability to gather information from sources 
and others with ease.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Investigation
Ability to find secrets and understand 
problems from a situation.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Lockpicking
Ability to pick locks and crack safes.
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Search
Ability to pat down individuals and scour 
rooms for small objects.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Sleight of Hand
Ability to quickly sneak objects out of pockets 
and swipe objects without others knowing.
50%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Stealth
Ability to sneak around in the shadows and 
not be spotted.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Streetwise
Ability to understand and comprehend street 
based situations, problems and subcultures.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%

Medical Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Cyberdoctoring
Ability to treat cyberborgs and those who 
have biomechanical parts.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Exodoctoring 
Ability to treat Exos with their unique 
biology.
5%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Field Medicine
The Ability to treat individuals without full 
equipment in the field.
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Holistic Medicine
Simplistic medicine made from natural 
herbal remedies and abilities. 
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Medtech
Knowledge of how to operate advanced 
medical technology and devices
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Psychology
Ability to understand anotherÅfs mental 
state.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Traditional Medicine
The Ability to treat individuals with severe 
injuries with professional medicine.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Veterinary
The Ability to treat and cure animals of both 
large, small, domestic, and feral varieties. 
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%

Military Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Armory
Maintenance of Weapons and Armor in the 
field.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Command Structure
The Ability to understand and know various 
aspects of the military command structure.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Dueling
The knowledge of the nuances and 
strategies of dueling culture, be it with 
swords, guns, or unofficial methods.
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Electronic Warfare
The Ability to perform E-Warfare and detect 
its effects in the field.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Fortification
The Ability to maintain, fortify, and protect a 
single area from harm.
35%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Military History
History of military deeds, forces, insignias, 
and other tertiary information.
50%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Monster Hunter
Knowledge of hunting large monsters, aliens, 
and other creatures - a real proof of a hero.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Scouter
The knack for getting a read on an enemy to 
determine their relative strength.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Tactics
The Ability to understand and devise tactical 
operations in combat situations.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%

?
People Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Animal Husbandry
Understanding of how to tame, handle, and 
manage different animals. 
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Banter
Ability to talk to the common man in a casual 
manner.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Barter
The Ability to work with merchants, buyers, 
sellers, and the world of business.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Charm
The Ability to seduce or charm another 
person interested in the Drifter.
50%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Command
The Ability to command and order others to 
perform their duty.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Diplomacy
Ability to negotiate with neutral or enemy 
forces for optimal outcomes.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Empathy
Ability to understand if another individual is 
under duress and in need of assistance.
20%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Etiquette
Ability to quickly adapt and understand 
traditions of the elite and nobility.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Performance (Open)
Ability to entertain and amuse an audience in 
a particular style.
50%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Sign Language (Open)
Ability to perform complex sign languages to 
either convey information or speak silently.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%

Open Skill Examples
Performance
Sign Language
Exo Rock 
(Heavy metal using alien instruments, popular in Chigeon)
Hand American
(American Sign Language - now more aggressive.)
Classical Latin Choir
(Commonly sung by the Latin Choir of the NAP)
Northern Tri Hand
(A Psychic Sign Language using a Mental Third Hand)
Coalition Rap
(Militarized Rhyming mixed with a beat.)
Palm Cree
(Complicated sign language of the Cree Tribes in Canada.)
Creative Writing
(Creation and development of creative writing endeavors)
Coalition Military Sign
(Military sign language of the Coalition Military)


The Wayward Notes - People Skills & You
People Skills mostly cover the ability to talk and 
get information from others. There is the ÅgFASTÅh 
way of making a check to get something 
answered and the more detailed method 
covered in the Demeanor Section.
The big reminder is that People Skills are not 
mind control (though a particularly vile Psychic . . 
.), and if someone doesnÅft know or doesnÅft want 
to tell you, itÅfll be difficult to get the information. 
On the other hand, a People Skill Check is often 
needed to ask directions or order a sandwich.

Science Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Astra Knowledge 
Understanding and learning in regards to 
Magic, Earthblood, and Mysticism.
20%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Formal Science (Open)
Ability to understand branches of logic and 
mathematics.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Natural Sciences (Open)
Ability to understand natural phenomena 
and apply it to scientific theory.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Pre-Collapse History
Understanding of Pre-Collapse Civilization 
and its nuances.
5%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Psycho Phenomenon
Understanding and learning in regards to 
Psychic Powers and the Inland Emperor.
20%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Social Sciences (Open)
Ability to understand branches of human 
behavior and logic.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Tear Knowledge
Understanding of Tears and how they 
function. 
5%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Xeno Science (Open)
Ability to understand branches of Xeno 
Sciences and Alien Technology.
5%
+8%
+3%
+0%

Open Skill Examples
Formal Science
Natural Science
Social Science
Xeno Science
Mathematics 
(The art of maths and numbers)
Biology 
(Biological Sciences and Animal Sciences)
Legal Sciences 
(Understanding of legal precedence)
Xenobiology 
(Study of Exo Biology and Tear Creatures)
Data Science
(Managing data flows and reading statistical data)
Chemistry
(Understanding of the properties of substances)
Economics
(Study of economies, currencies, and market fluctuations)
Aeven Sociology
(Understanding of Exo Society and Cultural Norms)
Cryptography
(Creating and breaking cyphers)
Astronomy
(Study of the Stars and Beyond)
Philosophy
(The Study of the Mind and Intelligent Thought)
Nu-Food Science
(Research into the creation and distribution of NuFood)

?
Technical Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Architecture
Learning and fundamentals behind buildings 
and construction.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Daredevil
Ability for a Drifter to perform tricks and 
other maneuvers inside of their Vehicle.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Navigation
Ability to read, comprehend, and chart 
mapping systems for long distance 
engagements.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Piloting  (Open)
Understanding how to pilot a different 
variety of vehicles in the world.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Salvage Operations
Talent for picking through debris and other 
locations for choice pieces of salvage.
50%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Sensor Equipment
Ability to read, understand, and interpret 
signals on sensory equipment.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Technical (Open)
Ability to understand and perform a detailed 
subject.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%


Open Skill Examples
Piloting
Technical
Land Vehicles 
(Piloting Cars, Trucks, Tanks, and Haulers)
Clowning 
(Advanced Knowledge of the Honk Arts)
Aero Vehicles
(Piloting Jets, Helicopters, etc)
Roping 
(Understanding of how to use ropes for tying or 
wrangling)
Aquatic Vehicles
(Piloting personal boats, yachts, and cargo ships)
Barbering 
(Knowledge of Hair Care and Maintenance)
Vertical Armored Cavalry 
(Piloting Mecha of various sizes)
Begging 
(The Truest Art of Asking Others for Money)
Power Armor 
(Advanced functions of Power Armor)
Tabletop RPG Developer 
(A Truly Miserable Experience)


The Wayward Notes - ÅgNuanceÅh Skills
A ÅgNuanceÅh Skill is a Technical Skill that a Drifter may take to 
ÅgSpecializeÅh one of their other Skills. A Skill Such as 
Computer Use could have a Nuance Skill of ÅgComputer 
Hacking.Åh 
These start and develop at the Technical SkillÅfs rate. 
However, the ÅgCapÅh to this Skill is equal to its Parent Skill 
current cap. Thus if Computer Use is at 75% then Computer 
Hacking can only raise to 75% no matter what. 
Nuance Skills will grant a ÅgBetterÅh outcome than using the 
Parent Skill.
Why is this a side note? It is bulkier and more awkward, use 
at your own peril.


?
Psychic Skills
	Psychic Skills require the Drifter to have Awakened their Psychic Potential to open successfully. 
If they have not, they may not learn or develop these Skills.
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Identify Psychic Power
Uncanny knowledge of the flow of 
Psychophysical Space to identify powers.
20%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Read Psychic Signature
Understanding of how to read and internalize 
others' Psychic Signatures.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Shivers
Developing a Sixth Sense to react to 
situations before they come up; Gut Feelings. 
50%
+4%
+0%
+0%
Trancing 
Ability to enter a Trance State to induce 
rapid physical and mental recovery. 
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%

Magic Skills
	Magic Skills require the Drifter to have Awakened their Magic Potential to open successfully. If 
they have not, they may not learn or develop these Skills.
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Druidic Circles
The study of Druidic Magic and its nature.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Elemental Physics
The study of Elemental Magic and the core 
elements of reality.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Fiend Knowledge
The study of Demonic Sorcery, Devil Pacts, 
and other Fiend Related Creatures.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
School of Occultism
The study of the Occultic and Ritual Arts, 
often grand and mysterious methods.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Technomancy
The study of the fusion of magic, technology, 
and practical uses of magic. 
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Theurgy
The study of religious magic and pseudo-
miraculous events via magic.
20%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Tulpamancy
The study of Tulpas, Mental Magic, and the 
relationship of Magic and Psychic Powers.
5%
+4%
+0%
+0%

Wilderness Skills
Skill Name
Description
Base Skill 
Value
Core 
Development
Trained 
Development
Hobby 
Development
Camouflage
Ability to hide oneself with natural features.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Naturalism
Ability to identify and understand plant, 
animal, and natural environments.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Land Navigation
Ability to navigate difficult terrain in hostile 
environments.
35%
+12%
+7%
+3%
Tracking
Ability to follow tracks and hunt people and 
animals down.
35%
+10%
+5%
+1%
Bushcraft
Crafting and Using Makeshift Equipment.
50%
+8%
+3%
+0%
Homesteading
Knowledge of how to forage, hunt, and 
survive off the immediate environment.
20%
+10%
+5%
+1%
ATB Skills
ATB Name
Description
Attribute Bonuses / Benefits
Acrobat
The Drifter is, or was, a noted acrobat in their past, developing a 
graceful way of moving.
+1 FIN / +1 SPD
Armchair Scholar
The Drifter has a hobby in researching topics at seemingly 
random.
+1 COM / +10% to Formal, Natural, or 
Social Science Skill. 
Athleticism
The Drifter takes care of themselves through rigorous athletic 
pursuits.
+1 FIN, +1 HRD, +1 POW, or +1 SPD (Pick 
2)
Blood Vein 
(Awakened Magician)
The Drifter has infused their bloodstream with magic, further 
enhancing their Attributes, at the cost of a sickly appearance and 
blood red veins.
+1 to Any, +2d4 MP
Bodily Control 
(Awakened Psychic)
The Drifter has mastered complete body control, being able to 
manage their own physical development and organs.
+1 to Any, +2d4 ESP
Body Modder
The Drifter has had time and effort to adapt their body to various 
body modding techniques.
+1 HRD - Increase Cybernetic Stress by 
+10.
Bodybuilding
The Drifter has bulked up through extensive exercise, muscle 
building activities, and hitting that iron.
+1 POW / +5 Endurance
Bootcamp
The Drifter has gone through a military boot camp, kicking their 
ass to harden their resolve.
+1 HRD, +1 POW, +1 SPD, +1 WIL, or +1d4 
Endurance and Health (Choose 2)
Brain Fried
The Drifter had an unfortunate encounter with a psychic in their 
early life, leaving them partially Brain Fried.
-1 COM, +1 ANM, +2 POW
Cram School
The Drifter has undertaken extensive cram schooling in their 
youth to pass rigorous exams.
+1 COM / +1 WIL
Dieting
The Drifter has a strict diet routine during their life, improving their 
constitution and look alongside it.
+1 BRV / +1 HRD
Endurance 
Training
The  Drifter has done everything in their power to fix their body 
and mind to peak performance.
+1 HRD / +1 WIL
Forbidden Meat
Whether in desperation, upbringing, or worse, the Drifter has 
partaken in the Forbidden Meat.
+1 to Any, -2 Demeanor
Gourmand
The Drifter has a discerning taste to most things, and does enjoy 
eating whatever they can whenever they want.
+1 COM, +10% to the Cooking Skill (or 
Opening it as a Hobby Skill)
Gymnastics
The Drifter understands the art of gymnastics and its benefits.
+1 FIN / +1 POW
Harsh Condition 
Specialist
The Drifter has specialized in dealing with harsh and dangerous 
conditions, making it easier for them to resist it.
Heat, Cold, or Radiation -  Resistance 2.
Inland Border 
Patrol
The Drifter has trained their mind to resist the influence of Psychic 
Powers, making them more attuned to the world.
+1 ANM / +1 Psychic Resistance
Iron Gut
The DrifterÅfs stomach is made of steel and their body proves it.
+1 WIL / +1 POW
Kadenz 
(Awakened Magician)
The Drifter has effectively enchanted their body to be more 
efficient, ravishing their Magic Power supply for enhanced power.
+1 to Three Attributes, -3d6 MP
Labor
A history of physically intensive jobs and hobbies.
+1 HRD / +1 POW / +10% to a Trade Skill
LoganÅfs Loophole
The Drifter has an uncanny resistance to drugs, alcohol, and other 
intoxicants. For now anyway.
+2 HRD / +3 to Saves vs Drugs, Alcohol, 
and Hallucinogens
Marathon Runner
The Drifter has taken part in marathons and other high 
endurance tests of skill, toughening them up.
+1 SPD / +5 Endurance
Masochist
The Drifter has a history of being a living, human, punching bag, 
toughening up their body.
+1 HRD / +5 Endurance
Meditation
The Drifter has trained extensively in meditative arts to hone their 
mind and body.
+1 COM, +1 ANM
Purity of Mind 
(Awakened Psychic)
The Drifter has undergone a purification of the mind and body, 
emerging as a different and less emotional person.
+1 ANM / WIL
Ranger Training
The Drifter has undergone Ranger Training - becoming more 
attuned to the natural world to survive its harsh realities.
+1 to FIN, POW, SPD, or WIL (Choose 1)
+10% to one Wilderness Skill
Running
The Drifter is a casual runner, but could have gone professional 
with enough training.
+2 SPD
School of Hard 
Knocks
The Drifter has learned from the rough and tumble life, often one 
where getting caught is a death sentence.
+1 to ANM, FIN, SPD, or WIL (Choose 1)
+10% to one Espionage & Rogue Skill
Splurgoth Slave 
Soldier
The Drifter has been genetically modified by the Splurgoth to 
serve as their EVER LOYAL servants.
-3 COM, -3 WIL, +3 POW, +3 HRD
Augmented Power and Hardiness
Sports Athlete
The Drifter has extensive knowledge (and scars) of a sport they 
use to play.
+1 FIN, +1 HRD, +1 POW, or +1 SPD (Pick 1) 
/ Technical: [Sport of Choice ] (+20%)
Sprinting
The Drifter has a history as a sprinter, short distance bursts of 
speed and determination.
+1 SPD / +2 Personal Initiative.
Swimmer
The Drifter is a natural born swimmer, able to tread water and 
navigate waterways with ease. 
+1 POW and +1 HRD 
Swimming Skill (50% + 12%)
The Look
The Drifter has ÅgThe LookÅh that naturally attracts attention and 
keeps the eye to them and them alone.
+1 BRV 
+10% to one People Skill
VizierÅfs Trust
The Drifter has been microdosing various poisons and toxins their 
entire life, while terrible at first, a tolerance has grown. 
+2 HRD / +3 versus Poisons
War Veteran
The Drifter served in the armed forces for a prolonged period of 
time, learning the ins and outs of military life.
+1 to FIN, POW, HRD, or SPD (Choose 1)
+10% to one Military Skill
 ?
Combat Training
Combat 
Training
Description
Actions per Round
None
The Drifter has no formal combat training or ability.
1
Basic
The Drifter has a basic idea of how to defend themselves.
2
Military
The Drifter has basic military training for most military forces.
3
Veteran
The Drifter has seen conflict and has been hardened by it. 
4
Commando
The Drifter is a highly trained military soldier, excelling at all combat 
situations they are thrown into.
5
Elite
The Drifter is considered one of the best warriors of the age, few can 
hope to match their prowess on the battlefield.
6
Weapon Proficiencies
	Each Weapon Proficiency Skill may only be taken once. If the Drifter does not have the Weapon 
Proficiency, they may still use the weapon, but not perform any Weapon Expertise with it. The Archaic 
Projectile Weapons, Archaic Melee Weapons, and Archaic Firearms cover all weapons in regards to 
their standard damage variants - all other Combat Proficiencies are considered to be for Mega 
Damage melee weapons or firearms.

Weapon Proficiency
Description
Archaic Projectile Weapons
Bows, Crossbows, Etc
Archaic Melee Weapons
Swords, Axes, Hammers, etc
Modern Melee Weapons
Vibroaxe, Energysword, SH Spear, etc
Archaic Firearms
Small Caliber Firearms - SD Revolvers, Handguns, Rifles, etc
Unarmed
Unarmed Combat Techniques whether formal or informal. 
Kinetic Handgun
Handguns using ballistics or large-density objects to inflict damage.
Energy Handgun
Handguns using energy, plasma, or gauss to inflict damage. 
Kinetic Long Gun
Rifles and other Long Guns using ballistics or large-density objects to inflict damage.
Energy Long Gun
Rifles and other Long Guns using energy, plasma, or gauss to inflict damage. 
Kinetic Automatics
Automatic weapons using ballistics or large-density objects to inflict damage.
Energy Automatics
Automatic weapons using energy, plasma, or gauss to inflict damage. 
Heavy Weapons
Large, bulky, emplacement sized weaponry.
Vehicle Hardpoints
Weapons attached to a Vehicle being directly controlled by the Pilot or a Gunner.
?
Weapon Specialties
	A Weapon Specialty is a refinement of a Drifter's combat abilities that are not directly 
impacting their  quality of combat training. Each Specialty allows the Drifter to have different options 
or bonuses under specific circumstances. Each Weapon Specialty may only be taken once, but its 
effects will apply to all weapons or actions that fit under it.

Martial Arts
Bloodball - The Drifter has practiced his tackles 
and takedowns on the fields of Bloodball. May 
forgo damage after a Punch Unarmed Attack to 
knock a Target of similar or smaller size to the 
ground.

Boxing - The Drifter has trained a lethal right 
hook. All Punch Unarmed Attacks deal an 
additional +2 Damage and on a Natural 20, will 
force a Hardiness Save from the opponent to not 
be knocked out for 1d6 Minutes. 

Capoeira - The Drifter understands dance-based 
martial art. They gain +2 to Personal Initiative 
while they are Unarmed and have +1 Auto Dodge.

Drunken Fist - While the Drifter is under the 
influence of alcoholic beverages or other 
intoxicants, they have +2 Auto Dodge and take no 
Physical Penalties while intoxicated.

EPTMS - Efficient Personnel Termination 
Management System is installed in the Drifter. If 
they have Mechanical POW, they add +3 to all 
Unarmed Strike Damage and +1 Auto Parry.

Gachta - Adonis Combat Wrestling, upon a 
successful Punch Unarmed Attack, may begin to 
Wrestle the Target. During Wrestling, may make 
Punch, Kick, and other Unarmed Attacks to the 
target. Adds the [Gory] Tags to all Unarmed 
Attacks after they have been grappled.

Gun-Fu - Learning the ancient art of gun-kata 
from the old masters. If the Drifter is using a One-
Hand, Main Hand, or Paired Firearms, they are 
treated as if they are Unarmed. 

Hercule - Gladiatorial Showfighting, when 
calculating a Damage Bonus to Unarmed Attacks 
in Melee, they treat their BRV as their POW.

Invisible Soup (Awakened Psychic Only) - An 
extreme martial art that involves mentally 
projecting objects and situations for the Drifter 
and a single Target. They may increase their Heat 
by 10 to a simple mental construct that can only 
be perceived by the two fighters. They may use 
this object during combat . 

Iron Crotch - During Melee Combat, if the Drifter 
were to take a Critical Hit, they may choose which 
Critical Effect they suffer.

Judo - The Drifter adds +2 to their Combat Check 
when they are making a Wrestling Combat Action 
during Unarmed Combat. Adds the [Stagger] Tag 
to Wrestling Attacks.

Juicer-Kido - The Drifter must possess 
Augmented POW. Upon a successful Parry, the 
Drifter makes a Punch or Kick Attack against the 
Target if they are within range. 

Karate - The Drifter adds +1 to their Combat 
Checks for Punches and Kicks. Enable the use of 
Flying Kick and Chop.

?

Planet Hollywood Fist - The Drifter fights like a 
superstar. The Drifter has -2 to all Combat Checks 
with Unarmed Combat, but all enemies have -2 to 
Parry or Dodge the Attack. This isnÅft combat, this 
is showmanship.

Savate - The Drifter has picked advanced kicking 
techniques. The DrifterÅfs Kick Unarmed Attack has 
a +2 to Hit and deals +2 Damage. Allows the use 
of Roundhouse Kick.

Schwingen - The Drifter is particularly skilled at 
Wrestling Techniques, they gain a +2 to Combat 
Checks while attempting to Wrestle.

Street Warrior - The Drifter is trained for the 
streets and ready for some fatal fury. The Drifter 
treats improvised weapons as if they were 
Unarmed.

Subway Monkey - The Drifter is a street fighting 
aficionado, in enclosed spaces, the Drifter has a 
+3 to Combat Checks for Unarmed Attacks.

SUITS - The Drifter is adept at SUITS 
Gentlemanly Fighting Techniques - all Unarmed 
Fist Attacks deal +2 Damage and have a +2 to 
Combat Checks for Fist Attacks. Looks ridiculous 
for everyone involved. 

TIPS - The Drifter is trained in the undignified art 
of the service industry, TIPS is trained to service 
employees to subdue, submit, and possibly snap a 
rowdy customer. When Wrestling, Target has a -2 
to escape the hold and -1 to their Choke-Out.

Total Concentration Breathing (Awakened Only) 
- The Drifter inhales deeply, focusing inward. They 
set their Heat to maximum, but may use MP to 
add +1 to Unarmed Combat Checks or +1 to 
Unarmed Combat Damage. 

UFC - The Drifter has practiced the Second 
Greatest Martial Art in the world, UFC. Ultimate 
Fighter Champion grants the Drifter a +1 Auto-
Parry and +1 to Combat Checks for Punches and 
Kicks. They can never learn Unifght.
Unifight (?) - The Drifter has practiced the 
WorldÅfs Greatest Martial Art. Unifight (?) grants 
the Drifter a +1 Auto-Dodge and +1 to Combat 
Checks for Punches and Kicks. They can never 
learn UFC. 

Wyrding Way (Awakened Magicians Only) - 
Focusing a massive amount of their Magic Power 
inwards, the Drifter enters a state of complete 
focus. Setting their Heat to 10, the Drifter may now 
apply Inscribed Glyphs and Gestures to their 
Unarmed Attacks. 

Zama Zama Pit Fighting - Named after the 
guttural Splurgoth language it comes from, Zama 
Zama Pit Fighting is a specialized style for the 
Gladiators of the Splurgoth Slave Pits. The Drifter 
has a +2 to Combat Checks for Punches and 
Kicks, +3 Damage to Unarmed Punches and Kicks, 
and attacks are always considered lethal. 

?

Technique
Action Reload - The Drifter may reload a Main 
Hand or One-Hand Weapon when they make a 
Non-Attack Action.

A More Civilized Age - The Drifter reduces the 
Formality of all Melee Weapons by -3.

Berserker - The Drifter lapses into a temporary 
blood-high, if the Drifter is in Melee Combat with 
a Melee Weapon, they gain a +4 to Combat 
Checks and +4 to Damage, but their NSR is set to 
0.

Bloody Mess - When the Drifter scores a Critical 
Hit, their weapon is assumed to have the Gory 
Tag.

Built Tough - The Drifter has a natural AR of 5, if 
they already have an AR they increase it by +1. 

Dive Shooting - After a Successful Dodge, the 
Drifter may knock themselves Prone to make an 
Attack Action with a Firearm.

Eagle Eye - The Drifter has a +2 to Combat 
Checks with Rifle Class Firearms.

Eclipse Style - The Drifter may use oversized 
melee weapons (+1d Damage, 25% Cost Increase) 
with no issue.

Fencing - The Drifter is trained in the classic art of 
fencing, when using a single Melee Weapon in the 
Main Hand they gain a +2 to Combat Checks and 
perform a Critical Hit on a 19 or 20. 

Gunslinger - The Drifter has an itchy trigger 
finger, if they are using a Handgun Weapon, they 
may draw it as a Free Action and gain +2 to 
Personal Initiative when using just a Handgun. 

Iaido - The Drifter flashes a melee weapon in an 
instant, they may draw a melee weapon for a 
free action or draw it for an action and gain a +2 
to strike with it. Must resheathe the weapon to 
perform this again. 
Kamikaze - The DrifterÅfs deathwish lets them 
spend a Reaction against a Melee Attack to 
immediately counter attack with their own Melee 
Weapon. They will take the damage of the attack 
first.

Knife Fighter - The Drifter is quick with a knife, if 
using a Knife in one-hand, the Drifter may add +4 
to Combat Checks, but gain the Recoil Tag.

Man with Gun - The Drifter reduces the Formality 
of all Firearms by -3.

Multi-Weapon Fighting - The Drifter has at least 
two hands with a weapon drawn, they gain a +1 
to Combat Checks an
 
d deals +2 Damage. 



One in the Eye - The Drifter chooses a Weapon 
of their choice, this Weapon hits a Critical Hit on a 
19 or 20.

One Last Squeeze - When an E-Mag is depleted, 
the Drifter has one additional shot left in their 
weapon.

Pistolero - The Drifter's Handgun Weapons deal 
+2 Damage.

Recoil Control - The Drifter ignores the first 
instance of Recoil from their weapon.

Run & Gun - The Drifter may make an Attack 
Action with a Firearm in the middle of a 
Maneuver Action.

Second Skin - The Drifter reduces the Maneuver 
Penalty of their Armor by 2.

Shotgun Surgeon - When the Drifter inflicts a 
Critical Hit with a Shotgun, they may select two 
Critical Effects.
Signature Weapon - The Drifter chooses a 
weapon in their possession, they gain a +1 to 
Combat Checks and -2 to Formality with it.

Snapshot - The Drifter may make a Reaction 
check to make a Ranged Attack at a -6.

Spotter - The Drifter may begin spotting for an 
ally in the same Space. The Drifter chooses an 
Ally and spends an Action - as long as they do 
not move from this Space or are disrupted in any 
way - the Ally has a +2 to Combat Checks.

Tally Ho! - When the Drifter makes a Maneuver 
Action and then makes a Melee Attack, they add 
+1d Damage to their attack.

Ultimate Commando - When using a weapon 
with Heavy Tag, the Drifter may ignore it if they 
treat it as a Full Body Weapon.














?
Warfare on Errant Earth
	Bloodshed has been part of human history as long as there has been history, and when the 
Tears ripped apart the world after the first manmade apocalypse many thought it would be the end. 
Unfortunately, warfare is human. The Errant Earth is filled with monsters, cyborgs, mutants, bandits, 
and militaries who wage a never ending war against one another for survival. While many would 
rather avoid it, the Drifter's life is rarely free of conflict, often finding themselves in the heart of a battle 
with little more than their wits, damaged armor, and a loaded rifle. 
	During combat in Errant Earth, the Drifters will be using a combination of Attribute, Skill, and 
Combat Checks to win the day. A Combat Check uses a D20 with the Drifter attempting to beat their 
target's Survival Rating to hit and deal damage. Rather than a traditional Attribute Check, the Combat 
Check sees if the Drifter manages to meet or exceed the Survival Rating of their target - though this 
does allow them to modify their chances and also avoid any retaliation that may be coming for them.

Seizing the Initiative
	When a combat situation occurs, all of the Drifters and their enemies will need to roll their 
Initiative to determine their Action Order. The Action order resolves in descending order, with the 
highest result acting first and lowest acting last.	

1d20 + [Reaction Modifier] + [Modifiers]

	When a Drifter's Initiative is called, they will be able to take a Turn, allowing them to use their 
Actions gained through their Combat Training. All of the combatant's Turns compose a Round, with 
each of these Rounds being broken up into roughly ten-seconds of frantic movement, quick shots, and 
haphazard plans. 
	If the Drifters were to ambush the opposing group, each of the Drifters would roll their Initiative 
and determine their Acting Order as usual. However, their enemies would be unable to take any 
Actions or Reactions during this Ambush if they are surprised, rolling for their Initiative at the start of 
the next Round and slot themselves into the Acting Order alongside the Drifters. If the Drifters were to 
set themselves up in a clearly defensible position with a kill zone and lines of fire, the same event will 
occur except for the defending side, allowing the Drifters to take a few potshots and actions against 
the assaulting enemy force. 

The Wayward Notes - An ÅgRealÅh Example
A group of bandits are camped far outside the town where the Drifters were hired to stop them, meandering around the campfire with a few of them 
still armed and patrolling, but unaware of the danger. If the DrifterÅfs open up fire on the unaware enemy - they have Ambushed them.
Later on, for retaliation against their group that was cut down, the Bandit Leader sends his entire gang after the town. Being able to hold the line with 
their rudimentary defenses, the Drifters have a Defensive Position, and are able to crack a few shots off on the approaching horde. 
 
Both of these situations would allow the Drifters an initial set of Actions against their enemies and potentially turn the tide. 
But remember, this may also happen to the Drifters.
?
Natural & Mechanized Survival Rating
	During combat the Drifter will be maneuvering frantically looking for cover or attempting to 
position themselves for the decisive blow. What determines their ability to avoid the hospital or an 
early grave, as well as determine their ability to strike an enemy in retaliation is measured by their 
Survival Rating.
	Natural Survival Rating (NSR) is the standard difficulty to strike an aware combatant who is not 
actively in cover or seeking to defend themselves actively. The NSR rating is determined by the size of 
the individual representing how difficult it is to pinpoint a shot on them as they scramble to avoid 
injury. Whenever a Drifter is attempting to attack an enemy, they will need to meet or exceed their 
targetÅfs NSR. The ÅgDefaultÅh NSR of an average sized human is 4, thus a Drifter would need to meet or 
exceed 4 on their D20 to hit.

Base NSR Table
Tiny
Small
Average
Big
Huge
Massive
6
5
4
3
2
1
Rat
Child
Adult Human
Bigfoot
Ogre
?????

	When a Vehicle is being piloted by a Drifter or an enemy, as long as they are moving, they will 
possess an MSR, Mechanized Survival Rating, based on the same size principles. If a Vehicle is not in 
motion and not moving, it is considered an object and can be hit with relative ease. Rigs & Titanic 
Vehicles have a 0 for their MSR, indicating that any attack against them will most likely hit - but with 
their armor and size, damaging them may be more complicated than hitting. 

Base MSR Table
Personal
Compact
Mid-Size
Large
Rig
Titanic
4
3
2
1
0
0
Motorcycle
Zippy Hover Car
MPV Boar
Minivan
Semi-Truck
Land Fortress

Armor Rating
	During their adventures, the Drifters will need to keep track of many things, but the Armor 
Rating of their Armor is important in combat. Armor Rating is how durable and protective the armor is, 
allowing the Drifter to shrug off certain attacks who can't be the threshold.
	NSR represents the Drifter's ability to avoid being shot or hit, Armor Rating allows some of those 
hits to bounce.

?
Combat Actions
	When it is the Drifter's turn they will have a number of Actions available to them equal to their 
current Combat Training, one to six. These Actions are split between Momentum and Reactive. 
Momentum Actions are when it is the Drifter's turn, allowing them to be more proactive in how they 
spend their Actions. Alternatively, a Reactive Action (or Reaction) is used when it is not the Drifter's 
Turn, allowing them to either defend themselves more actively, make snap decisions, or protect 
others.
	A Drifter may use as many or as Actions as they wish, but Momentum and Reactions use the 
same pool of Actions as well. If a Drifter uses all of their Actions during Momentum, they cannot use 
any in a Reaction, but if they are forced to use a number of Reactions, they may have nothing to do 
during their turn.
	Both Melee and Ranged Attacks do not have a traditional Skill like Bartering or Naturalism, 
instead any Drifter can reasonably use any weapon they get their hands on. However to become truly 
skilled in a Weapon, they will need a Weapon Proficiency, or a WP. A WP in a Weapon allows the Pilot to 
use Expertise on their attacks, modifying their attack with bonuses and penalties to inflict Called Shots, 
Feinting Attacks, or actually aiming properly.
	If a Drifter is unable (or unwilling) to use all of their Actions by the end of the Round, the Drifter 
converts all of their remaining Actions to their current Personal Initiative, allowing them to act earlier in 
the Action Order. 

?
Momentum Actions
Attack, Melee
The Drifter makes an attempt to strike a Target 
who is adjacent to them on the field with a 
weapon or their fists. The Drifter makes a 
Combat Check of 1d20 + [Modifiers] versus 
TargetÅfs NSR. If successful, the Attack deals 
damage equal to their weapon. 

Attack, Ranged
The Drifter makes an attempt to strike a Target 
who is within range of their weapon. The Drifter 
makes a Combat Check of 1d20 + [Modifiers] 
versus TargetÅfs NSR. If successful, the Attack 
deals damage equal to their weapon. 

Delay
The Drifter holds their Action until a trigger occurs, 
allowing them to snap into Action once the trigger 
is set. For example: ÅgIf someone rounds the 
corner, I will shoot them with my gun.Åh

Maneuver
The Drifter is able to move up to their Movement 
Value dictated by their Reaction Derived 
Attribute.

Other
The Drifter performs an action that requires 
effort. For example: Opening a door requires no 
effort, kicking in the same door to break it open 
would take a [Other] Action. 

Power
The Drifter uses one of their Magic Spells or a 
Psychic Power - paying the MP / ESP Cost as well 
as resolving the effects. Different Magic Spells or 
Psychic Powers may require additional Actions to 
resolve. 

Refocus
The Drifter takes a second to breathe, soaking in 
the atmosphere of the battlefield around them. 
They increase their Initiative by +2 for the next 
Round or clear a Condition. 
Reload
The Drifter reloads a weapon on their person. If 
the Drifter does not have a Weapon Proficiency 
with the weapon, this takes two Actions. 

Skill
The Drifter uses one of their Skills. They will 
perform a Skill Check and determine the results.

Tool
The Drifter uses a tool, item, or object on their 
person or in the immediate area and resolves its 
effects. 


?

Vehicle Combat Actions
	During Vehicle Combat, whoever is piloting the Vehicle may perform the same type of 
Actions as above, but instead relying on their Vehicles current options. In addition to those 
Momentum Actions, the Drifter has a number of Vehicle specific Actions. 

Vehicle System
The Drifter triggers one of their VehicleÅfs 
Upgrades, Traits, Items, or built-in safety 
features and resolves the effects immediately. 

Ram
Entering Ramming Speed allows the Drifter to 
slam into an opposing vehicle or individual in an 
adjacent Space (or within 5 Meters). 
If it is against a different Vehicle that is currently 
not moving - both will take [5 - Ramming 
Size]D10 Damage to their Hull. If it is against a 
humanoid target with an NSR, they must make 
a Combat Check against double their NSR . 
Dealing [8 - Ramming Size]D10 Damage as 
either Standard or Mega Damage (Vehicle 
Dependent).
If the Vehicle has a Melee Weapon Hardpoint, 
they instead make an attack with their Melee 
Weapon first before registering the Ram. 
Ejection & Shutdown
The Drifter performs a Controlled Ejection, 
popping their cockpit to reveal themselves. For 
an additional Action, the Drifter may completely 
shutdown their Vehicle as well.

Emergency Repairs
The Drifter makes the appropriate Mechanics 
Skill Check to perform emergency repairs inside 
of their Vehicle. If they are successful, they add 
+1d6 Durability to their Hull.

Maneuver
The Drifter moves a number of Spaces equal to 
their VehicleÅfs Pace. 

Other
The Drifter performs an action that requires 
effort. For example: Moving debris to the side 
for civilians to escape. 

?
Weapon Expertise
	Performing a Weapon Expertise requires that the Drifter has the appropriate Weapon 
Proficiency to enhance their attacks. The number of Actions required, in addition to the starting action 
to perform the attack, are noted in parentheses. Each Expertise may only be applied once to a single 
attack .

Aim Down Sights (Ranged) (+1)
The Drifter takes careful and precise aim right 
down their sights. They add +4 to their Combat 
Check. 

All-In-Strike (Melee) (+1)
The Drifter hefts their weapon and attempts to 
deliver a savage blow. They move up to their 
Combat Speed and attack the Target. If they 
are successful, it deals double (x2) damage. 

Called Strike (+1)
The Drifter attempts to strike a specific part of 
the body on their Target using a Single Shot or 
Melee Attack. Each Location has an Attack 
Penalty, but if successful, will strike the part.

Part
Penalty
Arm
-4
Foot
-8
Groin
-6
Gut
-2
Hand
-8
Head 
-10
Leg 
-4
Torso
-2

Cleave (Melee) (+1)
The Drifter makes a large sweep with their 
weapon with the intent of attacking up to three 
targets within reach of their melee weapon.
Feint (Melee) (+1)
The Drifter fakes out the Target, if they manage 
to hit the TargetÅfs NSR or MSR (no modifiers to 
defense), they will do no damage. All future 
attacks for the rest of the Turn are at +10 to hit.

Precise Strike (Melee) (+1)
The Drifter focuses on a single strike of their 
weapon, they add +5 to their Combat Check 
when using a Melee Weapon.

Spray (Ranged - Automatic) (+1)
The Drifter sprays recklessly at their target, their 
Attack is considered to have [Suppression], if 
their weapon already has [Suppression] they 
gain +2 to hit.


The Wayward Notes - Expertise in Action
Hunk the Adonis Mercenary is confronting a 
Skindancer in the woods, the creature is currently 
wearing the flesh of one unfortunate soul and seeks 
to add his to the collection.
Hunk manages to go first, as he has a [Weapon 
Expertise] in Kinetic Long Rifles he opts to go for a 
disabling shot on the shambling horror.

He elects to make a Ranged Attack (1), Called 
Strike for the Leg (+1), and Aim Down Sights (+1). 
For three Actions, Richard is going to try and blow 
off the SkindancerÅfs leg. 

Normally the Called Strike is a -4 to Hit, but as he is 
Aiming Down Sights, he gets a +4 to Hit. So he just 
has to hit the SkindancerÅfs NSR of 5. Suggesting it 
doesnÅft try and dodge. 


?
Reactive Actions
Block 
Declared after a Successful Attack on the Drifter. 
The Drifter blocks the attack with their shield or 
other implement instead. The weaponÅfs damage 
is instead redirected to the shield or other object. 
If the Damage exceeds the Block Capacity of the 
Object, it is destroyed. 

Dive
Declared after being made the Target of an 
Attack. The Drifter throws themselves out of 
harm's way, consuming all remaining Actions and 
they are considered Prone. 

Dodge
Declared after being made the Target of an 
Attack. The Drifter attempts to Dodge the 
Attack, they will roll a Combat Check with a D20 
+ [Reaction Modifier] versus the AttackerÅfs 
Combat Check. If successful, the Drifter dodges 
the attack without issue.. 

Dodging a . . .
Penalty
Melee Attack
0
Energy Firearm
-8
Kinetic Firearm
-4
Explosive / Area Attack
Impossible
Attack Magic / Psychic Powers
-4

Intercede
Declared after an Ally is targeted by an Attack. 
The Drifter may choose to do one of the 
following:
Åú	Harry Enemy - If the Drifter is within range of 
the enemy with their own weapon, the Enemy 
has a -3 to their Combat Roll.
Åú	Shield Ally - Drifter takes damage Partners 
stead if they are within the same Space. 
Parry
Declared after being made the Target of an 
Attack. The Drifter attempts to Parry a Melee 
Attack, they roll a D20 versus the AttackerÅfs Roll. 
If Successful, the Drifter parries the blow and 
may make a Melee Attack for an additional 
Action. 

Parrying a . . .
With a . . .
Modifier
Improvised Weapon
Weapon
+2
Improvised Weapon
Unarmed Strike
-3
Unarmed Strike
Weapon
+4
Unarmed Strike
Improvised Weapon
+2
Weapon
Weapon
0
Weapon
Unarmed Strike
-6
Weapon
Improvised Weapon
-2

Roll With Punch
Declared after taking damage from an Attack. 
The Drifter attempts to mitigate a small amount 
of damage from an attack, they spend as many 
Actions as they wish to reduce Damage by -1d6 
for each Action spent.  
 
	 The Drifter may acquire their immense 
speed, magical or psychic powers, and even 
certain Combat Specializations the ability to 
Auto-Dodge or Auto-Parry. An Auto-Dodge or 
Auto-Parry allows the Drifter to immediately 
make a Dodge or Parry Reaction that does not 
cost any of their Actions. The Drifter must 
declare they are using an Auto-Dodge or Auto-
Parry after the attack is declared as they would 
normally - any remaining Auto-Dodge or Auto-
Parry is lost upon the Round's completion and 
returned normally as if they were Actions.
?
Taking Damage
	Eventually the Drifter's luck will run out and they will be hit with a weapon that will deal damage 
to them. If the Drifter is a fool and they are hit with an Mega Damage Weapon, they die immediately 
(but may take a Scar) as they are vaporized, dismembered, or other horrible fates. If they are 
wearing armor or are hit with a Standard Damage Weapon, they will take damage as normal.
	When the Drifter takes damage, they will first reduce any Armor they are currently wearing 
first. A standard Gladiator Armor Set may have 60 Durability, allowing them to take up to 60 Mega 
Damage before it breaks open and reveals the guts of the Drifter. MD Armor does work on a 
threshold though, meaning that when MD Armor takes damage that would destroy it, the excess 
damage is lost as the Drifter staggers from the attack. 

SD Weapon
vs
SD Armor
result
Record Damage Normally
SD Weapon
vs
SD Endurance or Health
result
Record Damage Normally
SD Weapon
vs
MD Armor
result
Record 0 Damage 
MD Weapon
vs
SD Armor
result
Immediate Destruction
MD Weapon
vs
SD Endurance or Health
result
Immediate Death
MD Weapon
vs
MD Armor
result
Record Damage Normally
GD Weapon
vs
Any
result
Immediate Death

Critical Hits and Critical Damage
Å@Å@Å@When fortune smiles on the Drifter and they roll a 20 on their Combat Check and they have the 
proper Weapon Proficiency, they have inflicted a CRITICAL HIT on the target and instantly succeeds in 
their attack as well as choosing one of the following. 

Critical Effect
Description
Bloody
The Drifter rolls damage twice and adds both together for the final damage.
Focused
When making an Attack, the Drifter chooses a Hit Location. If this is a Called Strike, 
they may change the Hit Location.
Hyped
The Drifter feels the surge of power, they restore +1d6 Endurance.
Link Strike
One of the DrifterÅfs allies within the same Space as the target who took a Critical, 
may take a Momentum Action immediately for no cost.
Reeling
The Drifter inflicts the [Stun] Condition on the Target.
Puncture
The Drifter deals 1d6 Damage to either Health or Endurance if the Target is 
wearing Armor, ignoring their Armor entirely.
?

Flesh Hit Locations
Location
Effect
Penalty to Hit
Scar ATB
Arm
The Drifter drops whatever they were carrying.
-4
POW or FIN
Foot
The Drifter drops [Prone] as their foot is blasted half off.
-8
FIN or SPD
Groin
The Drifter experiences agonizing pain, they take +4d6 Damage.
-6
ANY
Gut
The Drifter suffers a gut shot, they lose 1d6 Health every round until they are 
treated.
-2
ANY
Hand
The Drifter drops whatever they were holding in that hand, but takes half 
damage.
-8
FIN
Head
The Drifter has been shot in the head - Roll 1d20, on a 1 or 2, they are instantly 
killed. If they roll a 3+, they take an additional +3d6 Damage.
-10
ANY
Leg
The DrifterÅfs leg has been shot, they move at half Speed. If both legs are shot, 
they must be dragged away by an ally.
-4
POW or SPD
Torso
The Drifter is shot in the chest - Roll 1d20, on a 1, a vital organ is hit and they 
take +3d6 Damage.
-2
HRD
Hit Locations are generalized toward humanoid shapes, adding additional appendages, body parts, or worse may result in 
different Hit Locations. The Errant Earth is a massive place, hosting more than a few freaks.
	
Armored Hit Locations
Location
Effect
Penalty to Hit
Arm
The Drifter drops whatever they were carrying.
-4
Foot
The Drifter is slightly staggered, they lose -2 Personal Initiative.
-8
Groin
Nothing, but the feeling remains. They must make a WIL Save, if they fail they take -4 to 
all Actions for the remainder of the Round.
-6
Gut
Staggering back, the Drifter must make a HRD Save, if they fail, they lose an Action.
-2
Hand
The Drifter drops whatever they were holding in that hand, but takes half damage.
-8
Head
The DrifterÅfs sight has been distorted, they gain the [Stun] Condition.
-10
Leg
The DrifterÅfs leg has been shot, they move at half Speed. If both legs are shot, they must 
be dragged away by an ally.
-4
Torso
Staggering back, the Drifter must make a HRD Save, if they fail, they lose an Action.
-2
?
Combat Mapping
	Combat takes place on the battlefield, forcing the Drifters to think accordingly to their 
surroundings to deal with the enemies before them (or attempt to run away faster than they can 
reach them). Battlefields are subdivided into two "types" of engagement distance: Field Combat and 
CQC. 

Field Combat	
	The most traditional type of battlefield that the Drifters will find themselves on is Field Combat. 
The GM will take a map and subdivide it into squares that represent 15 x 15 foot chunks of territory 
that the Drifters and their enemies may inhabit. 
	These squares are referred to as Spaces, pieces of ground that a Drifter can maneuver around 
in as well as dictate an engagement distance between enemies. The Drifters may attempt to cover 
ground equal to their Pace, effectively measuring how far a single Action may carry them.
	A Reaction  of 15 means that a Drifter has a Pace of 2 - this means that the Drifter may cover 2 
Spaces for one Action. If the Drifter had a 4 Reaction and a .5 Pace, they would take two Actions to 
move into an adjacent Space. 
 
	Due to the size of each of the Spaces, multiple Drifters or Enemies may be standing in a single 
Space unimpeded. If a Drifter and an Enemy are in the same Space, they are considered to be within 
Melee Range (Range 0). There is no strict limit to the number of people that may be in a single Space, 
though when a grenade is lobbed into it, most will attempt to scatter. 
	Each Space can only support one Vehicle of Mid-Size or Two Compacts. If a Vehicle were to 
enter a Space already occupied by another Vehicle, then a crash would occur, or worse. Personal size 
Vehicles are able to be with their rider regardless of the size, but these motorbikes and trikes can 
rarely take the firepower of a dedicated assailant. 
	Whenever a Drifter is using a Ranged Weapon, they will need to check the Range on the 
weapon itself. Any Weapon used inside of their Minimum Range or outside of their Maximum Range 
incurs a -2 Combat Check Penalty per Space. Certain Weapons, such as Melee, can only be used in 
certain situations or at certain ranges. 
	For example, using a Battle Rifle with a Maximum Range of 5, shooting at a Target at 7 Spaces 
would incur a -4 Combat Check Penalty on the Attacker.
 
	Certain Spaces may contain environmental features that may impact the ability for the Drifter 
to act or allow them additional options. These boil down to Cover, Free Fall, Rough, and Hazardous 
Terrain.
?

Cover
	Combat is a game of cat and mouse, and 
learning when to be which is often the key to 
success. Spaces with Cover have dedicated 
locations and areas to allow the Drifter to put 
something between them and their enemies. 
Cover comes in three varieties: Light, Heavy, and 
Complete.
	Light Cover covers situations of half-
concealment or obfuscation of attacks, as long as 
the Drifter is in a Space with Light Cover they may 
choose to gain a +4 to their NSR representing the 
increased difficulty to hit them. For an Action, the 
Drifter may attempt to further hide themselves or 
make themselves more difficult to hit, increasing 
the bonus to +6 to their NSR, but they may not 
Attack or make Reactions.
	Heavy Cover places hard walls, awkward 
angles, or encompassing foliage to mitigate 
attacks against the Drifter. As long as the cover 
can reasonably take up 80% of the Drifter's body, 
it's considered to be in Heavy Cover. While in 
Heavy Cover, they have a +6 to their NSR, but if 
they take an action to hunker down, this increases 
to a +10 to their NSR.
	Finally, Complete Cover has the Drifter 
break line of sight of the enemy entirely. No one 
can attack a target they can't reasonably see. If 
they are firing blindly at where the Drifter "should 
be" the Drifter has the hunkered down Heavy 
Cover bonus of +10 to their NSR as well as 
imposing a -10 penalty on the Attacker who 
cannot see them.
	If the Attacker is in the same Space as the 
Drifter, then Cover demotes by one step if the 
Attacker is using a Ranged Weapon. However, if 
the Attacker is declaring a Melee Attack, then 
cover does nothing as the assailant rushes their 
position immediately.
Rough Terrain
	Spaces with Rough Terrain are difficult to 
navigate due to sludge, foliage, water, or anything 
that would hinder movement. The Drifter's Pace is 
considered to be two steps lower than it actually 
is when attempting to leave the Space.
	For example, if a Drifter is knee deep in a 
swamp, their Pace of 3 would go down to 1. While 
a Drifter at 1 would go down to .25 instead. A 
Drifter cannot fall below .25 Pace.

Hazardous Terrain
	The Space is actively attempting to harm 
or at least damage the Drifter outright. These 
Spaces come in three varieties: Standard 
Hazards, Mega Hazard, and Giga Hazards each 
correlating to the 2d6 Damage that will incur as 
long as the Drifter is in the Space or walks through 
the Space to reach a different location.

Standard
Mega
Giga
Fire, Poison Gas
Plasma, Magic
Lava, Nuclear Waste

Free Fall
	Reasonably speaking, this could be 
referred to as "Flight." If a Drifter has the ability to 
fly through equipment, abilities, or features they 
may loom above the Space itself being treated as 
if they were +1 Space away, but ignoring all 
Features. But they may still declare a Melee 
Attack in the Space below them, swooping down 
to deliver a blow. If an enemy also has flight, the 
two Engaged targets treat the "Free Fall Zone" as 
if they were in their own Space.
	The Free Fall aspect comes from the more 
likely scenario of falling. Every "Space" above the 
current one incurs a stacking 3d6 Damage to the 
Drifter should they fall from it. Thus falling 30 Feet 
(2 Spaces) would deal 6d6 Damage. However, 
this Damage is either SD if the Target does not 
have Armor on, or MD if they do. This SD Damage 
targets the DrifterÅfs Health directly instead of 
resolving Endurance first.
	Armor may cushion one's blow, but parts 
will be jumbled, containment protocols punctured, 
and disaster looming.

?
CQC 
	Most firefights that occur are rarely the practiced military engagements or structured battles in 
the field. Someone draws a knife in a bar, another quickly draws a revolver with enough force to 
punch through armor, while the Psychic readies to cut both down in a second. 
	CQC, or Close Quarters Combat, are situations in which the current fight is not occuring at a 
reasonable distance to represent via Field Combat. Normally, these are spur of the moment combats 
where everyone is within 15 to 30 Feet of one another. Rather than tracking exact distances, the entire 
area becomes awash in combat as both sides either open up or charge one another.
	CQC Battles are considered to be "Theatre of the Mind" in which most enemies are within 
reasonable distance to pop off snap shots or get into melee at a moment's notice. Treat all CQC 
Battles as if they are taking place in the same Space for purposes of Weapon Ranges and abilities. 
	Should the battle evolve beyond the natural limits of the CQC, then Field Combat may be 
elected to be used to represent the expanding battlefield unfolding. But few tend to last that long.

Vehicles on the Map
	Similar to Drifter on Drifter battles, Vehicles can find themselves playing a massive part in 
different fights. The basic rules still apply to both scenarios - Vehicles in Field Combat will take up a 
number of Spaces in the field, representing their "girth" as much as their use. A Large or Mid-Size 
Vehicle can take up one Space and still support an entire party defending it from attackers. Rigs 
take up to six Spaces depending on their load and cargo, while a Titanic Vehicle outright replaces 
up to 16 (4 x 4) Spaces depending on the size.
	If the Vehicle has a Turret or otherwise can be used for combat, the Vagabond must be in the 
Vehicle (taking a Momentum Action to enter if they are outside) to use the equipment successfully. 
However, as long as a Vehicle is in a Space, the Drifters may choose to use it as Cover.

Vehicles in Field Combat Table
Personal
Compact
Mid-Size
Large
Rig
Titanic
Light Cover
Light Cover
Heavy Cover
Heavy Cover
Heavy Cover
Complete Cover 
or Heavy Cover 
Any Number
2 per Space
1 per  Space
1 per  Space
1 per  4-6 Spaces
1 per  12 to 16 
Spaces


?
Mystica Magica
	Magic is the art of manipulating Earthblood in the 
body, projecting it out in a devastating flurry of magical 
energy to tear enemies apart and bend reality to the 
whims of the Drifter. Learning the craft of Magic is a long 
road that takes decades to fully master, but there are 
always shortcuts to power that magicians yearn to 
discover. Magic is the power to bend and twist, should it 
not be the power to change oneself entirely?
	When the Drifter increases their Character Level or 
someone attempts an Awakening Ritual on them, they will 
roll 1d100 under their Magical Potential. If they succeed, 
they open their Magical pathways and gain their base 
amount of Magic Power in addition to any bonuses 
granted to them by their Occupation. 

Magical Potential Chance
Base Value
50%
Awakened Psychic
-50%
Awakening by Earthblood Geyser
+15%
Background & Occupation
Variable
Per Character Level
-3%
Per Cybernetic Stress
-5%
Per Rank in Psychic Career
-6%
Magic Awakened Companions
+3%
Psychic Awakened Companions
-3%
Child (0 - 12)
+15%
Teenager (13 - 19)
+5%
Adult (20 - 45)
-
Aged (46+)
-40%

Magic Power
	Magic Power, or MP, is an abstraction created by accredited universities to explain the 
phenomenon of Magicians Ågrunning out of energyÅh during prolonged use of magical power. The 
explanations for why this occurs vary from internal chemistry, intangible forces, to the more 
reasonable ÅgMagic Power is created by others to oppress less capable magicians.Åh Regardless of the 
truth, when the Drifter uses magical powers they are drawing from their total MP to project it 
outward. If they were to ever run out, they would be able to manage little more than a few measly 
sparks and pull a muscle.

Magic Power (MP)
[WIL x 2] + [Background / Occupation Bonus / CL]

	Whenever the Magician uses a Spell, they will calculate the total Strain it costs their body to 
use, reducing their Magic Power when itÅfs cast. A Spell Strain is equal to the amount of components it 
takes to cast it successfully - trained Magicians have developed methods to reduce the amount of 
Strain individual magical abilities cost, but it mostly depends on the Schools of Thought that dominate 
the method in which magic is taught to others.?

	Magic Power recovers to full after a complete rest 
(8 Hours for Humans), ingesting Prana Potions, or by 
soaking in the latent energy of Earthblood. 
	In desperate circumstances, each of the Schools of 
Thought have devised their own methods to recover 
Magic Power, the ÅgQuick and DirtyÅh method. Often this 
requires the Magician to perform some variety of action or 
sacrifice something in exchange for a few drops of Magic 
Power they can squeeze from their bodies. 
 
	Standing by or hunting for Earthblood Geysers are a 
sure way for the Magician to recover their Magic Power 
quickly. Soaking in the latent energy to replenish their own 
stockpile. Standing by a Geyser or Wound for too long will 
invoke a Power Surge as the energy starts supercharging 
the Magician's body. This causes them to undergo mood 
swings, vast quantities of Magic Power and manic 
restlessness.
	Many who experience the rush feel dead inside 
when the Wound closes or they are taken away from the 
Geyser directly. Often coming down off of it hard by 
resting for multiple days in a row.

Magic Power Recovery
Complete Rest (8 Hours)
100%
Incomplete Rest (Less than 8 Hours)
50%
Hour by an Earthblood Geyser
+2d10
Blood Transfusion
+1d10
Meditation during Downtime
WIL

Earthblood Power Surge
Time
Effect
1 Hour
Invigoration, Focused, Rested
6 Hours
Manic Mood Swings, Fully Awake
1 Day
Restlessness, Heart Palpitations
3 Days
Medical Coma (1d6+2 Days)
7 Days
Mutation, Changing Body Chemistry



Schools of Thought
	Due to its volatile nature, the ÅgSchools of ThoughtÅh are the various methods that Magicians 
across the Errant Earth have used to harmonize their teachings and infuse their power with a structure 
it so desperately needs. Across the Great Lakes Confederacy, there are seven dominant Schools of 
Thought that permeate most education and fields of magic.
	Each School of Thought has its own discrete teachings to further refine their techniques, but 
each will have the Average Grimoire Size when learning about or developing new Magic Spells, the 
number of Cantrips that they receive per Character Level, as well as a number of Signature Foci 
similar to Backgrounds or Occupations. If the Magician has no formal training, they are considered a 
Free Magician and possess no bonuses or issues until they undergo proper training. 

Schools of Thought
Average Grimoire Size
Cantrips
Signature Foci
Druidic Circles
3 - 6
+1 / 2 CL
Nature, Roots, Shaping
Elemental Physics
3 - 5
+1 / CL
Element of Choice
Fiend Knowledge
2 - 15
+1 / 3 CL
Fiends, Chaos
School of Occultism
3 - 4
+1 / 5 CL
Mysteries, Arcana
Technomancy
6 - 7
+1 / 2 CL
Technology, Interface
Theurgy
1 - 3
+1 / 6 CL
Religious, Holy Symbols
Tulpamancy
2 - 4
+1 / 3 CL
Imagination, Distorted

Druidic Circles

Elemental Physics
 

 
Description

Description
The Drifter has learned magic from the druidic 
circles of nature magicians. Druids are a self-
contained group more concerned with keeping 
ancient knowledge and going with the flow of the 
natural world. 

The Elements are a tangible force in the world 
and as such itÅfs impossible to not apply scientific 
theory to it. Elemental Physics is a branch of Magi-
Scientific Study over the Elemental Planes. 
Cryomancers, Pyromancers, the works.
Discrete Teaching: Flower Language

Discrete Teaching: Mancer Training
The Drifter knows the Flower Language (20% + 4%) 
which allows them to communicate with Animals, 
Plants, and other living organisms.

The Drifter has their Elemental Foundation as an 
Inscribed Glyph: Aeros, Geos, Hydros, or Pyros
Recovery: Moonburn or Solar Growth

Recovery: Perfect Embodiment
The Drifter will need to choose if they are Moon 
Circle or Solar Circle Druids - if they strip naked 
and meditate in their preferred environment 
(Night / Day) they will make a full MP Recovery in 
an Hour.

The Drifter chooses an Element they have 
Inscribed and subjects themselves to a meditative 
trance in it (superheated room, freezer, etc)  to 
recover an additional +1d10 MP / Hour.

Fiend Knowledge

School of Occultism
 

 
Description

Description
The Drifter has learned the art of magic from 
Fiends, Demons, and Devils. The information has 
been either extracted through torture or servitude 
to these Åghigher powers.Åh Hostile magic is what it is, 
dangerous, volatile, chaotic. 

Occultism is the study of the Unfounded Elements, 
distorted Non-Elements and more bizarre 
energies that are drawn upon. Education is 
sporadic and passed from Master to Pupil in 
private, often close, relationships. 
Discrete Teaching: Soul Rending

Discrete Teaching: False Eye
The Drifter knows dark techniques to tear out 
Inscribed Spell, Gesture, or Glyph from a Magician 
they have killed

The Drifter has an Occultic Scrip as an Inscribed 
Glyph: Hex, Luxos, Mentat, Death, Physicallica, 
Sonica, or Umbros.
Recovery: Blood From Stone

Recovery: Steal from the Aether
The Drifter is practiced in appeasing their infernal 
patron - they demand blood sacrifice, allowing the 
Drifter to convert their Endurance at a 1 END to 1 
MP exchange, and Health at a 1 HP to 5 MP.

Occultist Drifters are able to ÅgPluckÅh Magic from 
the world around them, they recover 1d6 MP every 
minute - but their Glimmer doubles during this 
time as they devour magical energy in an area.


Technomancy

Theurgy
 

 
Description

Description
The modern world needs modern magic, 
Technomancy is the fusion of magical arts with 
technology to create a hybridized version of both. 
By relying on technology and machinery, they 
have progressed past the need for ÅgLower Arts.Åh

Faith is power, and Theurgy is a mixture of the 
religious teaching and manipulation of magic to 
mimic those teachings. Theurgists are usually 
cloistered in monasteries, but many also wander 
to spread the good word or perform ÅgMiracles.Åh
Discrete Teaching: Technomancy

Discrete Teaching: Doctrine & Reliability
The Drifter knows the Technomagic Construction 
(35% + 8%) with the Take20 Skill Tag, which 
enables the Drifter to construct Technomagic.

The Drifter begins with three Rote Spells they 
have mastered during their training.
Recovery: Battery Pack

Recovery: Prayer & Contemplation
Each Technomancer has their own hastily 
constructed ÅgBattery PackÅh as the feat of their skill. 
They may store up to 50 MP in it, releasing it all at 
once to recharge themselves.

The Drifter takes time to pray and refocus their 
energy, they double their WIL when they are 
Meditating.

Tulpamancy


New World Bible - Grimoires
A ÅgGrimoireÅh is a term used to describe any 
implement that a Magician uses to keep their 
abilities secret as they attempt to Internalize 
them to use spontaneously. Even the most 
veteran magicians viciously guard their 
Grimoires for risk for their enemies using their 
abilities against them as well as stealing their 
research into different abilities or skills. 

Åú	Druidic Circles - Tattoos or other more 
Physical Implements with Magic.
Åú	Elemental Physics - Functional and Sleek, 
Often insulated against their own focus.
Åú	Fiend Knowledge - Skin Bibles and other 
Grisly Implements.
Åú	School of Occultism - Impossible Objects or 
Bizarre Implements
Åú	Technomancy - Technological Databases
Åú	Theurgy - Religious Textbooks or Manuals
Åú	Tulpamancy - Hidden in their Mental Palace.
Åú	Free Magicians - Anything

 


Description


Psychic-Magician Hybrids arenÅft uncommon, but 
those who are born into it or have functional 
training become Tulpamancers, relying on 
manifestation of their Inland Empire to succeed 
and have trained with it extensively. 


Discrete Teaching: Psychic Magician


The Drifter must be an Awakened Psychic to take 
Tulpamancy - but they may use their MP to use 
Psychic Abilities as well as ESP for Magic.


Recovery: Conquest of Elysium


When a Tulpamancer defeats a Psychic or 
Magician (Knocked Out or Killed) they absorb 2d10 
ESP or MP respectively.



Heat & Burnout
	Magic is not without its risks, often frequent and deadly for those who donÅft know how to 
control their newfound power. Whenever a Magician is using Magic, they generate Heat. Heat 
measures a mixture of their internal body temperature as well as the latent aura around them as they 
start casting. Normally, this will dissipate as soon as the spell ends, but there are some considerations. 

Total Heat
[WIL + Ranks in Magical Occupations] + [Modifiers]

	Whenever a Magician casts magic, they will be generating Strain that will reduce their Magic 
Points. If this Strain is higher than their Total Heat, the Spell fizzles, being simply too powerful for the 
Magician to use successfully. This occurs more among young Magi training their first few techniques. 
However, if a Magician is choosing to Sustain a Spell, they will treat the Total Strain as being their 
current Heat. The more spells the Magician has working at once the more their body is heating up and 
failing to cast more complicated spells. 
	So what is a Burnout?
	Burning Out is the term used to describe Magicians who have expended far more power than 
they naturally are able to, burning their natural Magic Power away to cast spells they normally canÅft. A 
Magician of CL 5 or higher may cast spells over their Total Heat if they make up the difference by 
reducing their Maximum Magic Power  to continue using their magic freely. Reducing their Magic 
Power to 0 this way causes the Magician to completely Burn Out, losing their Magic Power entirely as 
well as their ability to Cast - though they may now take up the Burnout Magic Occupation. 

?
Grimoire
	The MagicianÅfs Grimoire is the collection of all of their Magical Abilities they have amassed over 
their lifetime. Each of these books, objects, or cryptic writings contain the Magicians Spells, Gestures, 
and Glyphs that allow them to filter their magic power through reliably.
	Spells are the foundational aspect of all Magic, the ability to shape oneÅfs Magic Power into 
something tangible. Each Spell is broken down into separate categories representing its nature  as 
well as what Gestures and Glyphs are available. If a Magician does not know a Spell, they cannot 
shape their Magic Power into anything - often seen by a Magician flailing haphazardly for something 
to happen under bad incantations or ritualized abilities.
	If the Spell would be able to do Damage, the Magician may choose it to be either MD or SD. In 
addition, if the Spell has (Defined) next to it, the Spell must dictate what it is doing: Summon Weapon 
(Revolver) is a different Spell than Summon Weapon (Sword)

Spells
Attack
Summon
Protection
Restoration
Mysticism
Ball
Armor
Shield
Heal
Alter
Beam
Entity
Void
Repair
Augmentation
Darts
Object
Wall
Transfer
Control
Fist
Weapon
Ward

Folding 




Illusion
Å@Å@Å@
Å@Å@Å@Gestures allow for a degree of precision in regards to Magic Power. It represents the second 
layer of a Spell, focusing it down or empowering it in different ways to enable the Magician to get 
more out of it. These are also loud and noticeable forcing the Magician to perform movements, 
incantations, or other effects to draw out the necessary changes to the Spell itself. Only one Gesture 
may be applied to a Spell itself, but they may either Consuming (only being able to be applied once) 
or Repeating (able to be applied up to three times). 
Å@Å@Å@Gestures can technically be applied to any Spell, but for purposes of Errant Earth, they are 
restricted to what is being stated here.

Gestures
Attack
Summon
Protection
Restoration
Neutral
Annihilation
Fool's Gold
Affixed
Cura (Medicine)
Flowing
Bloody
Gunsmithing
Projected
Response
Grand
Destructo
Juggernaut
Twisting
Soothing
Trigger
Empowering
Precision


Twin Casting
Agonizing
Reflex Armor


Untaxed
Draining
Smithing


Widening
Å@Å@Å@Glyphs are the final level of precision that a Magician can muster, the final gate in which a Spell 
passes through as it manifests the Spell properly. Each Glyph may only be applied once, but act as a 
method that changes the properties of the Spell itself. These are also the most presentable, being 
whatÅfs seen moments before the Spell is fired off.
Glyphs
Attack
Summon
Protection
Restoration
Neutral
Aeros
Mentat
Animated
Empower
Empath
Accelerated
Blasting
Metallica
Enfeeblement
Giga
Hercules
Backfire
Cryo
Nechronica
Fiend
Standard
Resistance
Bluff
Entropy
Physicallica
Legionaries


Hunger Seed
Forceful
Pyros
Squadica


Inverse Crown
Geos
Rending
Vault


Lighten
Hex
Sonica



Bright
Hydros
Steama



Pull
Lectricus
Target Lock



Push
Luxos
Umbros



Weight
Malicious 





 
Å@Å@Å@Each Magical Ability used by a Magician is a [Spell], augmented by a [Gesture] and a [Glyph] to 
heighten its effects. However, the Magician is restricted to what Spells, Gestures, and Glyphs they 
possess as they are all written in their Grimoire.
Å@Å@Å@The GrimoireÅfs Size indicates how many of each type they may have access to. Multiple 
Grimoires may contain different abilities for each, allowing for creative Magicians to ÅgdrawÅh the right 
Grimoire at the right time - or at least hunt them down to add to their own growing collection. Once a 
Grimoire is full, they can no longer sustain any additional Spells, Gestures, or Glyphs.
This leads to Inscribing & Rote Magic.
	Inscribing Magic is the act of purposefully embedding the Spell, Gesture, or Glyph onto the 
soul of the Magician, turning themselves into a living Grimoire of sorts. When one of these are 
Inscribed, they become a permanent fixture of the Magician's repertoire, able to be drawn out 
regardless of whether or not they have their Grimoire. However, each Magician may only sustain a 
total of [1 + CL/5] Inscriptions at once, meaning that a CL 15 Magician would have access to 
Inscribing four Spells, Gestures, or Glyphs on their person .
Å@Å@Å@Rote Magic has been trained to near perfection by the Magician. Every 3 CL a Magician may 
elect to create a Rote Magic Spell - taking any Spell, Gesture, and Glyph they have available in their 
Grimoire and reducing the Strain Cost by half as long as it is cast the exact same way with no 
alterations to the nature of the Spell. Rote Spells are ÅgLockedÅh for the Magician, but are simple for 
them to cast to let them do so with far less stress on their body. 
 
	The final important note about Grimoires and the construction of magical powers before the 
descriptions of each is the act of Countering Magic. If the Drifter has a Grimoire or has Internalized 
over half of the components of a Spell, then they may attempt to Counter the Spell as a Reaction. The 
Drifter makes an Opposed WIL Attribute Check against the caster. If the Drifter defeats the Caster, 
then they will expend an equal amount of Magic Power to disrupt the casting and cancel it out (still 
forcing the original expenditure). If they fail, they are not fast enough to stop it, but they do not spend 
MP on the Counter attempt.
	Counterspelling is seen as a massive insult to almost every Magician, though the only way that 
someone would know what Spells are being cast would be to continue casting the same magic over 
and over again, or if someone were to have stolen their Grimoire . . .


The Wayward Notes - Identifying Magic
Identifying Magic is not a difficult feat unto itself, whether just detecting traces of Glimmer or perceiving the 
distortion of reality with their own eyes. Identifying the types of Magic being used is more difficult. When a 
Magical Power is cast in the presence of a Magician or someone trained in detecting Magic - they may make a 
Check to see what the Spell is using either their School of Thought Skill or Comprehension Attribute.
The chart below is assuming that the Spell is being used ÅgIn-CombatÅh and moments are all the Drifter has to 
recognize it. If the Drifter is studying someone while relaxed, they all do this with a +20% to their Skill Check, but 
no change for having No Formal Training.


Same School of Thought
Separate School of Thought
No Formal Training
Determine Spell Used
Skill Check (+20%)
Skill Check  (-20%)
COM Attribute Check (-6)
Determine Gesture Used
Skill Check (-20%)
Skill Check (-60%)
COM Attribute Check (-10)
Determine Glyph Used
Skill Check
Skill Check (-40%)
COM Attribute Check (-8)

Alternatively, an accepted way to learn what magic is being cast is to be hit with it. Whether this 
reduces the Drifter to a pile of viscera is part of the learning process. 

Confederate Records - Plot Spells
ItÅfs no secret that ÅgPlot SpellsÅh exist. You know,ÅhI, Alakazam, will summon the Demon Lord Chronirot to this world!Åh followed 
by a dramatic fight to shoot him in the head with a gun. Plot Spells are just that ÅgPlot RelatedÅh and not written down here. 
Same premise exists for them, but is more loose in how they are handled - the ÅgSummon: Demon Lord ChronirotÅh doesnÅft 
need to exist, you just need to steal AlakazamÅfs Grimoire to learn how it actually works (after deciphering it of course!). 
?
Spells

Attack
Strain
Description
Ball
4
The Magician arcs a ball of energy at the Target Space during Field Combat.  Range 2 / 2d8 Damage / Area
Beam
3
The Magician shoots out a raw beam of energy at a target. Requires Combat Check 
Range 4 / 2d6 Damage
Darts
2
The Magician throws a set of energy blasts at Targets with Range 1, they distribute 3d4 Damage Die to individual 
Targets  with seperate Attack rolls.
Fist
2
The Magician lashes out with energy directly in front of them.  Requires a Combat Check They deal 1d10 Damage  
at Melee Range.

Summon
Strain
Description
Alter
(Defined)
4
The Magician changes the properties of an object, such as changing its state of matter, increasing its 
buoyancy, or rubberizing it.
Armor
3
The Drifter creates Magical Armor around themselves worth [WIL x 3] MD and an AR of 5. ItÅfs considered to 
be Standard Medium Body Armor.
Entity 
(Defined)
6
The Drifter manifests an entity that they have control over - this Entity has two Concepts at [CL] and [CL-
4].
Object 
(Defined)
1
The Drifter creates an Object from their Magic, itÅfs a simplified version of it, but does perform its duty 
adequately.
Weapon  
(Defined)
3
The Drifter manifests a magical Defined Default Weapon.

Protection
Strain
Description
Shield
4
The Drifter creates a defensive shield around themselves, it has a Block Capacity of [WIL x 2] against 
Physical Attacks and does not hinder the DrifterÅfs movements.
Void
3
The Drifter places a number of wards on themselves, increasing their Saves against Magical Effects by 
+3
Wall
3
The Drifter creates a Light Cover in a Space. If Light Cover is already present, it becomes Heavy Cover.
Ward
4
The Drifter creates a defensive shield around themselves, it has a Block Capacity of [WIL x 2] against a 
Magic or One Elemental Attack type and does not hinder movement.

Restoration
Strain
Description
Heal
4
The Drifter places a hand (Range 0) on themselves or an ally to add [Strain + 2d6] Endurance or 
Health to the target.
Repair
3
THe Drifter places a hand (Range 0) on their damaged equipment, adding [Strain + 1d6] Durability 
back to the item. If it is broken, restore it to functional use. 
Transfer
3
The Drifter places a hand (Range 0) on themselves or an ally, they may transfer up to their [WIL] MP 
or ESP to their ally or themselves. 


Mysticism
Strain
Description
Augmentation 
(Defined)
6
The Magician seeks to change the state of being that the Target is in at Range 0. If the Target can 
resist, they make an ANM Save. If they fail, the Magician inflicts the Defined Condition.
Control
8
The  Magician seeks to exert control over an object or person within Range 0. If the target can 
resist, they make an ANM Save. If they fail, the Magician may define one action the target will 
perform.
Folding 
4
The Magician folds space around them, teleporting themselves to a location within [WIL] Feet. May 
sustain for rudimentary flight.
Illusion
1
The Magician creates an illusionary construct, able to fool others if they donÅft make an ANM or 
COM (-4) Save against the Illusion.

?
Gestures

Attack
Type
Strain
Description
Annihilation
Consuming
4
The SpellÅfs purpose is simple: if this Spell kills the target, their body is completely 
annihilated, being reduced to atoms by the attack. 
Bloody
Consuming
2
The SpellÅfs particular viscous. If this Spell kills the target, they explode in a rather 
graphic display of gore.
Destructo
Consuming
3
The Spell is considered to be an AT-Weapon. The Spell doubles the damage against 
Vehicle Armor and Hull for Damage.
Empowering
Repeating
5
The Spell increases the number of Damage Die it uses by +1
Agonizing
Repeating
5
The Spell increases the Damage Die size of the attack by one Step.
Draining 
(Defined)
Consuming
3
The Spell no longer deals physical damage, instead it will reduce the TargetÅfs ESP or 
MP instead.
Rupture 
(Suggested by Cole)
Consuming
6
The Spell ignores all traditional Armor and instead directly damages the TargetÅfs 
Endurance / Health - considered to be SD or MD  Damage based on Endurance / 
Health.

Summon
Type
Strain
Description
Breath 
(Alter) 
(Suggested by Cole)
Consuming
10
The Altered Object may be turned into a living homunculi powered by magic of 
equal size. 
(Sticks to Snakes, Bones to Birds, Hammers to Haddocks)
Fool's Gold
Consuming
-1
The Summoned Object has the appearance of authenticity, but is secretly 
worthless in actual application.
Gunsmithing 
(Weapon)
Consuming
4
The Summoned Firearm may mimic a Firearm with Two Modifications.
Juggernaut 
(Armor)
Consuming
5
The Summoned Armor is improved and reinforced to be [WIL x 5] MD and 
increase its Armor Rating to 6, but is considered to be Heavy Armor.
Precision
Repeating
2
The Summoned Object appears more precise to what is being summoned, incurs 
a -10% / -2 to identify the object as a Summon per application of Precision.
Reflex Armor 
(Armor)
Consuming
5
The Summoned Armor is reduced to only [WIL x 2] MD and loses its Armor Rating, 
but is considered to be Light Armor.
Smithing 
(Weapon)
Consuming
4
The Summoned Melee Weapon may mimic a Melee Weapon with Two 
Modifications.
State Change 
(Alter) 
(Suggested by Cole)
Consuming
5
The Altered Object may be changed into a different state of being. 
(Solid to Gas, Solid to Liquid, Liquid to Gas, etc)
Transmute 
(Alter) 
(Suggested by Cole)
Consuming
3
The Altered Object may change its properties to a similar type (Lead to Gold, 
Silver to Gold, Oak to Maple Wood)

Protection
Type
Strain
Description
Affixed
Consuming
6
The Protection Spell does not need to be Sustained and will last until destroyed 
or it has been targeted by an Effect .
Projected
Consuming
3
The Protection Spell may extend to anyone within a Range of 3.
Twisting
Repeatable
4
The Protection Spell increases its effectiveness by +[WIL] (for Shield and Ward) 
or by +1 (Void)

Restoration
Type
Strain
Description
Cura 
Consuming
6
The DrifterÅfs healing spell creates an idealized place to heal and 
recover - as long as it is sustained, the target of the Restoration 
Spell is considered to be in ideal conditions .
Responding
Repeatable
5
The Drifter increases the number of Dice in their Restoration Spells.
Soothing
Repeatable
5
The Drifter increases the Die Size of their Restoration Spells.

Neutral
Type
Strain
Description
Flowing
Repeatable
3
The Spell increases its Range by +1.
Grand
Consuming
2
The Spell is truly dazzling to behold, and difficult to read, imposing 
a -30% / -6 Penalty to determine what any part of the Spell is.
Trigger
Consuming
2
The Spell is only triggered upon the condition being met that was 
set by the Drifter upon casting. Must still be Sustained.
Twin Casting
Consuming
2nd Spell 
Strain + 1
The Drifter combines the first Spell with a second Spell.
Untaxed
Consumed
-3
The Drifter may cast this Spell with ease, watching it flow easily.
Widening
Repeatable
5
If the Spell is not an Area Spell, make it an Area Spell. If the Spell is 
an Area Spell, may apply to +1 Adjacent Spaces from Origin Point.
?
Glyphs

Attack
Strain
Description
Aeros
3
The Spell is infused with the Element of Air, it now deals Elemental Air Damage
Amrato
(Suggested by Cole)
4
The Spell uses sacred vitae, or blood, as a medium. Lashing out with either their own blood or using the 
blood of their victims as a medium. 
Blasting
10
The Spell lets out an explosive ending once it connects, the Attack is now considered an Explosive 
Attack in addition to its base damage type.
Cryo
5
The Spell now has the properties of Ice - the fusion of Hydros and Geos. It now deals Elemental Ice 
Damage.
Entropy
5
The Spell now has the properties of Dust - a fusion of Aeros and Geos. It now deals Elemental Dust 
Damage.
Forceful
6
The Spell packs a punch, the Target of the attack must make a HRD Save or be knocked down. 
Geos
3
The Spell is infused with the Element of Earth, it now deals Elemental Earth Damage.
Hex
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Hex - a combination of miasma and natural illness. It now 
deals Elemental Hex Damage.
Hydros
3
The Spell is infused with the Element of Water, it now deals Elemental Water Damage.
Lectricus
5
The Spell now has the properties of Electricity - a fusion of Aeros and Pyros. It now deals Elemental 
Electric Damage.
Luxos
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Luxos - a combination of solar energy and blinding light. It now 
deals Elemental Luxos Damage.
Malicious 
6
The Spell delivers such a blow to shake the confidence of the target - they must make an ANM or WIL 
Save. If they fail, they have the Terrified Condition.
Mentat
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Cerebral - a combination of mental energy and overwhelming 
senses. It now deals Psychic Damage. 
Metallica
5
The Spell now has the properties of Metal - a fusion of Pyros and Geos. It now deals Elemental Metal 
Damage.
Nechronica
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Death - drawing upon necromantic energies to empower 
unlife and drain souls. It now deals Death Damage.
Physicallica
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Physical - now relying on raw physical damage to punch 
through armor rather while canceling the magic in it.
Pyros
3
The Spell is infused with the Element of Flame, it now deals Elemental Fire Damage.
Rending
8
The Spell maximizes the potential collateral damage it causes, causing noticeable destructive 
influences on the environment.
Sonica
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Sonic - a combination of acoustics and false noises to damage 
others. It now deals Sonic Damage.
Steama
5
The Spell now has the properties of Steam - a fusion of Hydros and Pyros. It now deals Elemental Metal 
Damage.
Target Lock
8
The Spell has been refocused down to the decisive strike, they gain a +4 to all Combat Checks. 
Umbros
7
The Spell uses one of the false Elements, Darkness - a combination of consuming darkness and void 
energies. It now deals Umbral Damage.
?

Summon
Strain
Description
Animated
10
The Spell allows the Summoned Object to act independently as long as it is within [WIL] Feet of the 
Magician - they must still make Combat Checks though.
Enfeeblement
-5
The Spell forces the Summoned Object to be weaker, lesser quality, or generally worse at doing most 
of everything when summoned. Damage is reduced by one die step, only one Concept may be used, 
Armor value is cut in half.
Fiend
-3
The Spell is infused with fiendish energy, hungering for blood and souls. Usually the Magician who 
summoned it.
Legionaries
15
The Spell tears the Summon apart into [WIL x 10] separate pieces working together, it may be split 
apart to act independently.
Squadica
20
The Spell manifests enough copies for each of the MagicianÅfs Companions, without needing to pay 
additional cost for each.
Vault
25
The Spell is dragged from the Place-Between-Places, or ÅgThe Vault,Åh it is far more alien and obtuse to 
observe, but serves extremely niche purposes.

Protection
Strain
Description
Empower
20
The Spell doubles the value of all Protection Abilities - if used in conjunction with Wall, creates Heavy 
Cover by default.
Giga
20
The Spell now generates Giga Damage Capable defenses, with anything less than the most 
powerful of attacks bouncing off.
Standard
-5
The Spell now generates only Standard Damage Capable defenses, only able to absorb the lightest 
damage possible.

Restoration
Strain
Description
Empath
10
The Spell allows the Magician to treat conditions such as poison and diseases, removing them 
instantly.
Hercules
15
The Spell invigorates the Target, pushing them to greater heights. As long as this Spell is in effect, 
the target has +4 / +20% to all Physical Checks.
Resistance
15
The Spell double checks all of  the protections that the Target has. As long as this Spell is in effect, 
the target has +4 to all Saves.

Neutral
Strain
Description
Accelerated
6
The Spell is cast at such a rapid speed itÅfs impossible to tell where it even came from.
Backfire
-3
When the Spell is cast, it deals 3d6 Endurance Damage  to the casting Magician.
Bluff
-1
This Spell is an elaborate fake-out, allowing the Drifter to make everyone pretend that the spell 
fired off or that another Spell was used instead.
Hunger Seed
-6
The Spell demands a sacrifice, the Magician takes 1d10 Health Damage directly.
Inverse Crown
-9
The Spell causes the Magician to die. Violently.
Lighten
4
The Spell lightens the burden of an item or individual, causing it to lose half its weight.
Bright
3
The Spell is blindly bright, it illuminates the Space it targeted or was used in with a bright light for 
seeing or distractions.
Pull
6
The Spell grips onto the Target and pulls them one Space closer to the Drifter.
Push
6
The Spell shoves the Target violently and pushes them one Space away from the Drifter.
Weight
4
The Spell increases the burden of an item or individual, causing it to increase its weight by 150%.
Hemos
-4
The SpellÅfs Strain does not reduce MP, instead it will reduce the MagicianÅfs Endurance / Health. 


The Wayward Notes - Classic Spells for Wayward Magicians

Fireball [Ball + Empowering 3 + Pyros] = 22 Strain
The Magician hurls a burning orb of fire at a Space at Range 2, dealing 5d8 Fire Damage to any unfortunate 
soul who happens to be caught in the blast. 

Devil Suit [Summon: Armor + Reflex Armor + Fiend] = 5 Strain
The Magician coats themselves in a sickly black armor, pulsating red. ItÅfs Light Armor with [WIL x 2] Durability 
and no movement penalties associated with it.

SchrodingerÅfs Magician [Illusion + Untaxed] = 0 Strain
The Magician coats themselves in an Illusion to simply appear to Ågnot be thereÅh until someone actively begins  
looking for them. This is opposed by an ANM Save or a COM (-4) Save to see the Magician.

Emergency Suit Return  [Repair + Trigger + Pull] = 11 Strain
The Magician places a sigil on the HEV Suit, upon reaching 20 or Less Durability, it will immediately Restore 
[1d6+11] Durability and pull the wearer one Space closer to the Magician.

Final Glory [Ball + Agonizing 3 + Inverse Crown] = 10 Strain
The Magician Detonates themselves, dealing 3d20 Damage to everyone in the same Space and blowing 
themselves up entirely.

Cantrips
	Cantrips are a MagicianÅfs best friend, rather than the sophisticated and rather detailed Spells 
that a Magician may be able to cast - Cantrips are ÅgLittle Magic.Åh This ÅgLittle MagicÅh allows the 
Magician to use their Magic Power to influence the world in small, subtle, ways that push them 
forward. Each Cantrip must be associated with a Signature Focus that the Magician has - whether it is 
from their School of Though or their personal Backgrounds and Occupations. 
Å@Å@Å@As the Magician develops in power, they will be able to develop their personal Cantrips more 
actively - adding more Cantrips based on their School of Thought in addition to developing one every 
3 CL naturally. The Magician does not need to define their Cantrips immediately, instead they instead 
define them when they are being used, but they will ÅgLockÅh them in when they are used. Trained 
Magicians have dozens of Cantrips they have developed over the years and actively seek out more to 
learn for themselves (or at least steal from their rivals). 
Å@Å@Å@Each Cantrip is built around 5 MP - representing the small impact of the Magic itself. The 
Drifters are free to define what their Cantrip is, if needed, consult the Cantrip Chart.

1 MP
2 MP
3 MP
4 MP
5 MP
6 MP
Simple Action
Mundane Action
Augmented Action
Mechanical Action
Supernatural
Exotic
Lift Small Objects
Create a Spark
Read Languages
Produce Light
Produce Element
Change Outfit

+1 MP
+2 MP
+3 MP
DoesnÅft Generate Heat
Impart a Narrative Benefit
Undetectable Magic

-1 MP
-2 MP
-3 MP
Must make a Skill Check
Impart a Narrative Penalty
Reduce HP by 1d3


?

The Wayward Notes - Classic Cantrips

Finger Lighter = 2 Strain (2 Mundane) // Fire, Gaudy
The Magician snaps their finger for a simple lighter, whether to light a fuse, a cigarette, or a party trick.

Convenience Kinesis = 3 Strain (1 Simple + 2 Benefit) // Distortion
The Magician lifts up an object of Light Weight and it will meander towards them. 

Sticky Gloves = 4 Strain (5 Supernatural - 1 Skill Check) // Technology, Interface
The Magician flips a switch and their Technomancer gloves become sticky to the touch, allowing them to 
climb up walls with ease. Requires Attribute or Skill Checks to maintain balance and not fall.

Bird Call = 5 Strain (6 Exotic + 1 No Heat - 2 Narrative Penalty) // Nature
The Magician lets out a whistle that rides the wind, small birds and mammals become relaxed around the 
Magician and sees them as just another animal. Though their voice becomes distorted.

Princess Dress = 3 Strain (4 Mechanical - 1 Skill Check) // Nobility
The Magician claps their hands and makes a Wardrobe Skill Check as their clothes dance towards them to 
help them get dressed. All you need now is talking animals.



 ?
Inland Empire
	The mind is a primal soup in which nothing emerges 
without a hundred thousand filters self-imposed by the 
constraints of the physical body and false ego. The psionic 
dream is to free the mind from the burden of flesh and 
decouple the self from it, an awakened entity that may 
cross the veil.
	A Psychic is an individual blessed, or perhaps cursed, 
with their ability to manipulate their Extra Sensory Power 
to manifest their various psychic abilities - empowering 
themselves, manipulating others, or radiating power 
outward to grant them any edge they can muster.
	When the Drifter increases their Character Level or 
someone attempts an Awakening Ritual on them, they will 
roll 1d100 under their Psychic Potential. If they succeed, they 
open their Psychic Eye and gain their base amount of ESP 
in addition to any bonuses granted to them by their 
Background or Occupation. 

Psychic Potential Chance
Base Value
50%
Awakened Magician
-50%
Teenager (13 - 19)
+20%
Adult (25+)
-20%
Background & Occupation
Variable
Per Character Level
-3%
Per Cybernetic Stress
-12%
Per Rank in Magic Career
-6%
Magic Awakened Companions
-3%
Psychic Awakened Companions
+3%


 Extra Sensory Power
	Extra Sensory Power, or ESP, is an abstraction of the mental strength and ego of a Psychic. The 
more one tries to manipulate the mind and the world around them, the more they twist and curl from 
the inside out. When a Drifter is using their Psychic Powers, they are drawing directly from their ESP to 
resolve the effect. When their ESP is reaching critical levels, the PsychicÅfs mind begins warping and 
tiring out, their body giving up to keep them going. 

Extra Sensory Power (ESP)
[ANM x 2] + [Background / Occupation Bonus / CL]

Å@Å@Å@Whenever the Psychic uses one of their Powers, they will calculate their total Strain to their 
body to use, rending their ESP when itÅfs used. While the Psychic Strain is reliable, it also forces the 
Psychic to constantly push themselves further and further to match their rivals - placing more Strain 
on their already fragile psyche.


	Extra Sensory Power recovers to full after a 
complete rest (8 Hours for Humans). Other methods 
include meditation, rampant drug abuse, or simply 
consuming the Psychic Potential of others.
	Devouring is the process where a Psychic absorbs 
the latent energy of a defeated psychic entity or other 
Psychic. Completely recharging (100% Recovery) 
themselves at the cost of the rather morbid interpretation 
by most. Other methods are more debatable, such as 
keeping living batteries, relying on empaths, or simply 
getting juiced to ward off the voices. 
 
	Psychics donÅft sleep traditionally though, when they 
do ÅgsleepÅh they enter their personal Inland Empire - a 
reflection of their inner psyche. Most are content with 
staying on the edge in the quasi-dreamlike state, others 
venture deeper into their Imperial Domain and retain more 
conscious thought and actions. Though time will slow down 
in this place as they are free to reconstruct their memories, 
talk to their ego forms, or simply meditate easier.

ESP Recovery
Complete Rest (8 Hours)
100%
Incomplete Rest (Less than 8 Hours)
50%
Devouring
100%
Meditation during Downtime
ANM

Imperial Timepiece
Location
Time Dilation 
(Reality / Inland)
The Outskirts 
(Edge the Mind - Dreamscapes)
1 Hour / 5 Minutes
Shoreline 
(Lucid Dreaming - Surface Ideas)
1 Hour / 30 Minutes
Centraline 
(Conscious Thought - Deep Memories)
1 Hour / 1 Hour
Mental Palace 
(Free Thinking - Abstract Memories)
1 Hour / 2 Hour
Mesial Void 
(Reflection of the Void - Seat of their 
Inland Emperor)
1 Hour / 6 Hours

	The Inland Emperor is the self-given name for the [True Ego] that resides at the center of the 
Mesial Void - the core of the PsychicÅfs being. Some actively seek out their Inland Emperor to learn the 
secrets of who they are fundamentally - others rarely venture beyond the Centraline for fear of 
realizing who they actually are.

New World Bible - Inland Empires
Psychics are cagey about describing their 
personal Inland Empire - itÅfs an emotional 
part of their sense of self and revealing 
those intimate details is difficult for 
anyone, psychic or not.
However, Psychics who invade others' 
minds for therapy or violence, fighting 
inside an Inland Empire is the purest 
expression of ÅgFighting in Foreign 
Territories.Åh ItÅfs completely alien to those 
unfamiliar, forcing their own perceptions 
to mold it into something Ågproper.Åh
In simple terms - two psychics enter a 
thirdÅfs mind. All three will see the Inland 
Empire differently. 

?
Heat & Pushing
	Psychic Powers rely on the strength of the user just as much as it does on their willingness to not 
use their powers. Whenever a Psychic is using any of their Psychic Abilities, they generate Heat. Heat is 
the measure of the Psychic's brain physically heating up to compensate for the increased stress of 
their abilities. Normally, Psychics "Vent" their Heat as soon as it's generated, resulting in a thin aura 
around them that mimics their current Glimmer.

Total Heat
[ANM + Ranks in Psychic Occupations] + [Modifiers]

	Whenever a Psychic is using their abilities, they will be generating Strain that will reduce their 
ESP. If this Strain is higher than their Total Heat, their ability flickers and eventually fades without 
accomplishing much due to their natural safety measures preventing them from doing so. If a Psychic 
chooses to Sustain a Power, they will instead treat that Total Strain as being their current Heat. The 
more abilities than the Psychic is maintaining at once, the more their mind and body have to keep up, 
struggling to use even the most basic abilities.
	So how does a Psychic push past their natural limits?
	One of the first steps of being a Psychic is learning the push-and-pull of the energy that lies 
dormant inside of them. Any Psychic at CL 5 or higher may decide to Push their Psychic Abilities to 
their limit, being able to manifest or sustain abilities past their Total Heat - in exchange the Psychic 
must begin hemorrhaging their ESP equal to double the excess Heat . They may choose to Sustain 
any abilities over their Maximum Heat, paying triple the ESP over their Heat Limit at the end of every 
Round or 30 Seconds of real time. 

The Wayward Notes - Boiling Point for Psycho-Magicians 
	Heat is used by both Psychics and Magicians, drawing upon the same principles explained in 
different ways. In the rare moments that a Psychic Magician is born, they will need to share their 
new Heat pool together. 
If a Drifter is both a Psychic and a Magician, their new formula for Heat is [(WIL+ANM)/2+[Ranks in 
Magician Occupations] + [Ranks in Psychic Occupations] + Modifiers. Luckily they are able to support 
more heat overtime, but only those trained in the arts of both can hope to use their MP and ESP 
together. 
?
Mesial Powers
	Deep within the Mesial Void of the Mind does the Inland Emperor sit upon its throne - the 
source of all of the Psychic's power begins and ends with the Inland Emperor and their whims.
	Mesial Powers are the passive effects that a Psychic is naturally born with and develop 
independently of any dedicated skill that the Drifter is partaking in. There are only three Mesial 
Powers, being common enough that all Psychics are assumed to have them in some capacity, sowing 
some distrust when appropriate. 
The Chorus (CL 1)
	When a Psychic is first awoken, the first 
thing they hear are their thoughts, the next is 
someone close to them and their thoughts. 
Psychics naturally can hear the surface thoughts 
of those around them, more concerned about the 
immediate moments in front of them or the 
lingering doubts that seem to haunt them. In 
densely packed urban environments, a thousand 
cacophonous voices are telling simultaneously 
directly into the mind of the Psychic at all times. 
	It takes years of training to fully shut out 
the voices, though it does become background 
noise after some time. 
	A Psychic may choose to focus on a 
particular person if the group is ten or less, the 
target does not have a Cybernetic Stress of 5+, is 
not a robot, is not a magician, or possess Psychic 
Resistance. If they do such, their inner voice is 
more clear and can be heard - this is how many 
psychic communities tend to talk with one 
another rather than verbal sparring. 

Telepathic (CL 3)
	The PsychicÅfs Chorus has matured to the 
point that it allows them to communicate with 
other Psychics silently through telepathy at a 
distance of roughly 30 Feet. 
	At CL 5, the PsychicÅfs Range increases to 
60 Feet and they may ÅgLinkÅh with others via the 
Trojan Horse to speak to them with Telepathy 
even if they are not Psychics.
The Trojan Horse (CL 5)
	If a Psychic were to place their bare skin 
against another individual, their mind opens up 
before them. During this brief trance  state, the 
Psychic is free to wander the mind of their victim, 
their personal Inland Fiefdom, as long as they 
stay connected.
	If the Psychic attempts this on someone 
with Psychic Resistance, they must make an 
opposed ANM vs WIL Save to "break into" the 
entity's mind. If this is done with another Psychic, 
feedback occurs and both feel a shock through 
their system. Some find this extremely stimulating 
in all of the wrong ways. 

Murmurs (CL 10)
	As the Psychic grows in strength, so does 
the Murmering. The Inland Emperor tends to 
make their voice known at inopportune times or 
at critical junctures, act less like a moral guide 
and more as an accelerant to any action done by 
the Psychic.
	By the time the Murmering begins in 
honesty, is it often too late. The Inland Emperor's 
voice can be heard when they sleep, when they 
close their eyes, and any moment they are not 
perfectly diligent they will often end up in a 
dialogue with their inner self demanding action, 
sustenance, or other ego-driven things. 
	Some embrace it. Some reject it. Others 
hang themselves after it gets too loud. 


?
Resonant Powers
	A Psychic's Resonant Powers are built from a set of different foundations, each relating to how 
the Psychic chooses to approach situations and seek a harmonious discord with them in some way.
	Depending on the Background and Occupation of the Drifter, they will begin with a number of 
Resonant Powers they will open up as they would any other Skill. Each Resonant Power is, for all intents 
and purposes, a Skill that the Drifter may use, performing regular Skill Checks to determine the quality 
of the power itself.

Resonant Powers
Description
Base Skill Value
Development
Aeon Sage
The Psychic offloads their mental tax 
onto others around them.
If Successful, the Drifter may ÅgStealÅh a Skill 
or Concept from another for 1 Scene.
23
+2%
Astra Eye
The Psychic throws their vision to a 
distant place, scrying around them.
If Successful, the Drifter may view an 
area within [ANM / 2] Miles of them. 
31
+4%
Astral Form
The Psychic decouples their astral 
form from their body, walking the 
chain.
If Successful, the Drifter astrally projects 
as a psychic ghost for up to [ANM * 2] 
Minutes
33
+6%
Thoughtforms
The Psychic needs some better 
opinions, they talk to themself. 
If Successful, the Drifter opens up a 
dialogue with one of their Skills to chat for 
ANM Minutes.
19
+2%
Psychotherapy
The Psychic mentally connects with 
another individual, taking on their 
worries for themselves.
If Successful, the Drifter remotely views 
another person's thoughts and shares in 
their emotional turmoil empathetically.
43
+4%
Parasite
The Psychic slithers into the recesses 
of others minds, plucking what they 
need from them.
If Successful, the Drifter may ask a 
question to the Chorus in which they will 
receive answers for what they know.
31
+4%
Precognition
The Psychic glimpses the future, is it 
doomed?
If Successful, if the Drifter were to fail a 
Check in the next 24-Hours, they may 
instead choose to Succeed.
11
+4%
Imperial Voice
The Psychic Commands, the Mind 
Listens.
If Successful, the Drifter forcefully takes 
control of an individual, forcing them to 
perform one action of their choice.
7
+2%
Telekinesis
The Psychic uses their mental ability 
to lift, manipulate, or interact with 
the world around them.
If Successful, the Drifter may lift, move, or 
interact with objects that are Light or less 
in Weight.
41
+4%

Resonant Power Bonuses and Penalties
Aeon Sage
Increase # of Scenes +1
-10%
Hyper Niche Skill 
+10%


Astra Eye
[ANM] Miles Radius
-20%
[ANM] Feet Radius
+20%
Still Frame Photo
+20%
Astral Form
[ANM] * 10 Seconds
+20%
[ANM] Hours
-20%
Body Still Active
-50%
Thoughtforms
Two Thoughtforms
-20%
Three Thoughtforms
-40%
Grand Council, All Skills
-60%
Psychotherapy
Manipulate Emotion
-20%
Replace Memories
-40%
Intensify Emotion
-10%
Parasite
Ask More Questions
-5%
Remain Hidden
-20%
Reveal Psychic Influence
+10%
Precognition
Additional Success
-100%
Enter Coma for 1d3 Days
+20%


Imperial Voice
Additional Order
-25%
Order Self-Harm
-50%
Order Deliberate Harm
-25%
Telekinesis
Lift Heavy Weight
-25%
Lift Push Weight
-50%
Lift Sub-10 Lbs.
+20%
	Resonant Powers obey the same limitations as Skill Checks with a consistent growth rate until 
they reach 100% in which they will drop to 0% Development. The Drifter will need to either manually 
improve their Powers through training or rely on the teachings of masters to impart their wisdom for a 
price.
	Whenever a Resonant Power is used against someone, they may have a chance to resist it with 
a WIL Save. Whenever the Psychic is using their Resonant Power against someone who is aware of 
them using their Psychic Powers, an Awakened Psychic, Awakened Magician, or has latent Magical or 
Psychic Resistance may attempt a save automatically. If someone is not capable of any of those, then 
they have no manual defense against the power being used against them and may not even realize it 
was used against them.
 

Resonant Powers
Base Strain
Aeon Sage
4
Astra Eye
3
Astral Form
5
Thoughtforms
3
Psychotherapy
2
Parasite
1
Precognition
7
Imperial Voice
10
Telekinesis
5

	Whenever the Psychic is using a Resonant Power, they will first 
pay the Base Strain Cost of the Resonant Power and then make their 
Skill Check. If the Check is successful, the Psychic will take the 1's place 
of the Die Roll (a 32 would be [2]) and add it to the cost for the total 
ESP spent on the abilities.
	Psychics can fluctuate wildly in their expense of ESP, relying on 
their own emotions in addition to their skill to carry them. If a Psychic 
were to spend ESP they do not have, they instead will pay with 
[Difference x 3] Endurance or Health.
	The first doctrine imparted on many Psychics is simple: It's a gift 
that will kill you if they let it. 


The Wayward Notes - Explaining This Entire System 
(Less) Elegantly
	Tidus has found himself in a tricky situation when a 
Coalition Patrol Officer wants to search his bag for contraband, 
which he most certainly has. In a desperate ploy, he gambles 
on them not knowing Psychic Abilities and opts to make an 
[Imperial Voice] Skill Check to convince the Guard to let him 
pass. HeÅfs put some time and effort into it, so itÅfs 36% - not 
great, but itÅfs what he has. He makes the Check against the 
Officer, who is not a Psychic, Magician, or knows whatÅfs going 
on.
	Tidus rolls and scores a 23! Success! 
	ÅgLet me pass already.Åh 
	The order is direct and simple, the Guard flinches as he 
reaches for the bag. Standing straight and walking away with 
a dull look in his eyes. 
 
	Tidus uses the [Imperial Voice] Ability, with a base ESP 
Cost of 10 - his 23 means he adds a +3 to the total cost. In total 
Tidus used 13 ESP to force the Guard away, not bad, but heÅfll 
regain his wits soon enough and wonder where that kid went. . .
?

New World Bible - The Nature of Psychics
P

?
Charge Powers
	When people traditionally think about Psychic, they either drift toward the abuse of their 
Resonant Powers or awe-inspiring strength of their Charge Powers. Charge Powers are the most 
direct application of the Psychic's ability to manifest their ESP. Whether they are using their power to 
directly harm others or protect themselves, the distortion of space and twinkle in the aether is enough 
to know that one is being used.
	Rather than straining their mind as with Resonant Powers, Charge Powers rely on the Psychic 
pushing out and expelling a set amount of their ESP to accomplish a preset goal. The appearance and 
nature of these powers are variable, but will inevitably alert any other Psychic to what's going on. Of 
course, Psychics are tricky when they need to be. When the field is even, every gambit has its place. 
 
	When a Psychic acquires a Charge Power they will open it up at its base level, or First Order. As 
the Psychic develops in power and begins to hone their abilities further, the Psychic may take 
additional Charge Powers or increase the Order of their Charge Powers by adding additional tricks, 
quirks, or empowering them directly. Each Psychic may only reach the Sixth Order in any of their 
Charge Powers, adding any more causing too much mental stress to manifest properly. Each Order 
will increase the base ESP Cost of the Charge Power, a Psychic may be able to Ågturn offÅh different 
Orders, but it will close off all abilities Ågabove itÅh as well . 
	If the Psychic wishes to "reset" themselves - they will need to undergo a complete mind cleanse, 
slipping into a 1d6 Day Coma as their mind mentally restructures itself. This allows the Psychic to 
redistribute any of their Orders among any of their Charge Powers. Each time this is done, add an 
additional +1d6 Days to their Coma as their mind slips deeper into the Mesial Void.
?

Armaments
5 ESP

The Psychic manifests a weapon from their subconscious, a personal reflection of 
their Inland Emperor in weaponized form. 

The Psychic defines a Default Melee Weapon, for an Action they may manifest their 
weapon in their hand and treat it as if they are wielding that weapon. 

	
Shifting Form
+2
Apply Tag (R)
+1
Honed Edge (R)
+2
The PsychicÅfs defined Weapon may 
manifest as a second kind of Default 
Weapon.
The Psychic defined Weapon adds a 
Tag of their choice to the weapon.
The Psychic increases the Damage Die 
of their Weapon

Shining Armory
+4
Flying
+6
Animated
+4
The PsychicÅfs Weapon may be 
empowered with their ESP, increasing 
damage by the amount of ESP spent 
per Attack.
The PsychicÅfs Weapon jumps from their 
hand, moving unconsciously on its own. 
It is considered to have Range 1. 
Requires Flying
The PsychicÅfs Weapon is alive! While 
manifested the weapon will talk, 
interact, and have Range 2 as they are 
free to move.
		

Blast
2 ESP

The Psychic aims and fires a concentrated blast of energy at the target.

The Psychic may make a Ranged Combat Check with a [2d8 MD or SD / Range 2] 
Weapon that deals Psychic Damage.
	
Apply Tag (R)
+1
Booster Gold
+2
Booster Blue
+4
The Psychic applies a Tag of their 
Choice to the Blast.
The Psychic increases the die size of 
their Blast by one step. This may only 
go up to D12.
The Psychic adds +1d Damage Die to 
their Blast

Sniper (R)
+3
Committed
-1
Elemetas
+2
The Psychic increases the Range of the 
Blast by +1.
The Psychic makes their Blast only do 
Mega or Standard Damage
The Psychic may choose a True or False 
Element to apply the Damage Type.
	?
	
Barrier
4 ESP

The Psychic effects a barrier around them to protect them from fire, manifesting as 
armor, cloaks of stars, or any other vestment. 

The Psychic coats themselves in Mega Damage Armor equal to [ANM x 2]. Must be 
Sustained.

	
Layered Barrier (R)
+3
Hardening (R)
+1
Reactive Spark
+6
The Psychic begins rapidly layering 
shields, increasing the ANM Multiplier by 
+1.
The Psychic adds an AR Value starting 
at 5. May take this again to increase the 
AR value by +1. 
The Psychic may use their Barrier as a 
Reaction. 
				
Protection
+5
Silent Barrier
+2
Mute Barrier
-3
The Psychic chooses a True or False 
Element, they have [Resistance] as long 
as the Barrier is up.
The PsychicÅfs Barrier radiates no energy 
or signal, making it remarkably quiet.
The PsychicÅfs Barrier is considered 
Standard Damage instead of Mega 
Damage.


Psi-Shield
3 ESP

The Psychic manifests a shield or other protective implement, ready to parry or 
protect others around them.

The Psychic manifests a shield with Mega Damage Block Capacity equal to [ANM x 
3]. Must be Sustained. If the Block Capacity would break the shield, it must be 
remanifested as it breaks alongside all effects. 
	
Layered Shielding (R)
+3
Buckler
-2
Tower Shield
+4
The Psychic begins rapidly layering 
shields, increasing the ANM Multiplier by 
+1.
The Psychic reduces their Mega 
Damage Block Capacity to ANM * 1. 
The PsychicÅfs shield is so massive it 
covers others, as long as the Psychic is 
in a Space, allies have Light Cover.
				
Thrown Cover (R)
+3
Guardian Angel
+3
Mute Barrier
-3
The Psychic manifests simplistic psychic 
constructs to assist their allies in a 
Space. Instead of the intended effect, 
the Psychic now manifests Light Cover 
in a Space. May be retaken twice to 
increase it to Heavy and then Complete 
Cover.
The PsychicÅfs Shield may be applied to 
any ally within the same Space. Either 
the Psychic or the Ally may use the 
Block Reaction of their own . 
The PsychicÅfs Barrier is considered 
Standard Damage instead of Mega 
Damage.
	?

Vitalis
3 ESP

The Psychic reinforces their body with the intent of maximizing their assets or 
abilities, flushing their body with ESP.

The Psychic uses ESP to increase their physical powers. Each Vitalis use increases 
one Attribute by +3 and is considered Supernatural. 

	
PUMPED UP
+2
RUSH IT
+2
BRAIN BLAST
+2
The Psychic may only increase Power or 
Hardiness, but the bonus is now +5.
The Psychic may only increase their 
Finesse or Speed, but the bonus is now 
+5.
The Psychic may only increase their 
Comprehension or Bravado, but the 
bonus is now +5.
				
Hulking Out
+7
Only Human
-2
As long as the Psychic is sustaining 
Vitalis, they are one size Larger.
The Attribute Potential is reduced to 
Mortal.


Restoration
1 ESP

The Psychic binds their wounds, mends their mind, and readies themselves for the 
next battle.

The Psychic uses ESP to heal their own Health or Endurance by +1. May Sustain for 
continued healing a tick over 1 Minute . Removed if damage is taken. 
	
Recovery (R)
+1
Lay on Hands
+5
DoctorÅfs Guidance
+4
The Psychic heals their Health or 
Endurance by an additional +1
The Psychic may touch a target within 
the same Space to use their Restoration 
on them.
The Psychic is considered to be in a 
Medical Setting when sustaining 
Restoration. 
				
Death Gaze
+24
MartyrÅfs Cross
-2
Empathetic Link
+3
The PsychicÅfs Restoration kicks in as 
they are on the brink of death. If they 
were to die with the body intact, it 
kickstarts the heart raising them to 1 HP. 
The Psychic may not use their 
Restoration on themselves.
Requires Lay on Hands 
The Psychic mentally connects to an 
Ally in the same Space. When the Ally 
takes Endurance or Health Damage, 
the Psychic does instead - they are 
considered Touching. 

Sewing Scars
+9
Alabaster Blood Cell
+2
Gearhead
+9
Requires Lay on Hands
The Psychic performs a delicate 
Psychosurgery on the Target. After the 
1d6+2 Hour procedure is done, the 
target may remove a Scar. 
The Psychic cleanse themselves of 
Poisons, Diseases, and Toxins from their 
body.
The Psychic may press their hands 
against equipment or armor and begin 
the Restoration process on them. 
Restoration no longer heals Endurance 
or Health. 


Latent Powers
	Deep within every Psychic lies their Inland Empire, a bastion of who they are on a physical, 
metaphysical, and transcendental basis. With their powers emanating from the Mesial Void and their 
Inland Emperor, it's no surprise there are one-of-a-kind powers that manifest.
	Latent Powers bubble up from the Mesial Void, demonstrating a power tied fundamentally to 
the abilities of the Psychic.  Whenever the Psychic reaches a point in Power, the Psychic will gain a 
unique Skill Tag called [Latent].
	When the [Latent] Skill Tag is added to a Skill, the Psychic has developed Psychic Powers 
relating to that Skill. By all intents and purposes, the Skill is now considered a Psychic Skill for purposes 
of advancement or abilities. This manifests as the Skill growing increasingly psychic dependent and 
allowing for supernatural phenomenon to manifest.
	To determine the base cost of their new Psychic Power, consult this chart.

1 ESP
2 ESP
3 ESP
4 ESP
5 ESP
6 ESP
Simple Action
Mundane Action
Augmented Action
Mechanical Action
Supernatural
Exotic
Piloting: Any
Banter
Monster Slayer
Armory
Forgary
Radio
Mentally turn on and 
off a switch or starter 
of a Vehicle.
Compel simple 
answers for short 
questions.
The Psychic mentally 
connects and tracks 
a local monster.
With a minute to 
focus, disassemble 
and reassemble a 
weapon.
The Psychic Produces 
a fake ID Card
Tune into the Astral 
Plane, a half-place 
Psychics can go to in 
their dreams. 

Confederate Records - Latent Powers and You!
	For a person so remarkably opposed to the concept of begging my GM for anything, adding 
one of these seems like a bold choice. But the truth is that Psychic Powers are fairly rigid as is with 
slower, more deliberate customization, Latent Powers let the Psychic have a bit more of that 
ÅgWhimsyÅh when needed before and after their powers start manifesting.
	Also [Latent][Trade:Mime] will open a million entertaining and horrid situations. 

?
Adventure on Errant Earth
	The Errant Earth is filled with a number of terrible hazards and diabolical plans that the Drifters 
will inevitably fall into. During their adventure, the Drifters will be getting into gun fights and debates 
simply enough, but more adventurous Drifters may find themselves far outside the comforts of 
civilization or at the heart of its rotting inside.

Travel
	When the Drifters are attempting to reach a location farther than a quick jaunt away, they'll be 
travelling. With the breakdown of infrastructure in America and beyond, the people of the Errant Earth 
have taken to carving their own roads out of the world toward major settlements and resources.
	Not to imply that connection is widespread, a road today is a bandit toll booth the next. Roads 
are for those who have the privilege to protect them, to keep them "safe enough" from the 
roughriders or enemies in the woods. For now at least.
 
	Whenever the Drifters are going to travel to a new location, they will need to choose how they 
are going to get there, how long it'll take, packing enough supplies, and then ride into the sunset, or 
perhaps walk slowly with fifty-pounds of supplies on their back.
	When the Drifters know where they want to go they'll first need to determine the distance 
between the two points. This is measured in American Miles, or the Mile. After determining the 
location, the Drifters will need to choose how they are going to reach their destination. This is done by 
choosing the Road, Path, Hazard, or Wayfinding. 
	Roads are reliable and are maintained by the local governments in the area. The Great Lakes 
Confederacy has a road going from Stony Point to Chigeon, Buffalo Falls, and Bay Town with Chigeon 
having another road riding through Milwaukee and Green Bay. However, with the conflict hitting a 
boiling point the roads are also a reliable place to find some suckers and be spotted before the 
Drifters know they are being looked at. 
	Paths are the unofficial roads, the backways that towns and isolated homesteads use to mark 
the way. Being in the "know" is half the battle when finding paths and cutting a deal with a local for the 
"secret path" may be ideal. Or lead into disaster in the middle of nowhere. 
	Finally there are Hazardous Areas and Wayfinding. Hazard Areas are pock marked in 
extreme danger or in the midst of a cataclysmic event. It's difficult to navigate without proper 
assistance and even more impressive to get out with their limbs attached. Though Wayfinding is 
arguably the most dangerous, striking off into the great unknown may be able to hide their trail and 
not alert any suspecting enemies, but being in the middle of nowhere with nothing but a navigator's 
keen eye and memory is something few wish to experience. 
?


Healthy Party
Injured Party
Forced March
Roads
20 Miles / Day
15 Miles / Day
30 Miles / Day
Paths
16  Miles / Day
12 Miles / Day
24 Miles / Day
Hazardous
2 Miles / Day
1 Mile / Day
3 Miles / Day
Wayfinding
10 Miles / Day
7.5 Miles / Day
15 Miles / Day


Quick Mounts
Draft Animals
Caravan Animals
Roads
40 Miles / Day
25 Miles / Day
5 Miles / Day
Paths
32 Miles / Day
20 Miles / Day
4 Miles / Day
Hazardous
4 Miles / Day
2.5 Miles / Day
?  Mile / Day
Wayfinding
20 Miles / Day
12.5 Miles / Day
2.5 Miles / Day


Light Vehicles
Medium Vehicles
Heavy Vehicles
Roads
90 Miles / Day
45 Miles / Day
15 Miles / Day
Paths
45 Miles / Day
22.5 Miles / Day
7.5 Miles / Day
Hazardous
0 Miles / Day
0 Miles / Day
0 Miles / Day
Wayfinding
15 Miles / Day
11.5 Miles / Day
2.5 Miles / Day

?
Travel Challenges
	The brave walks across the Errant Earth in spades, but only a few of 
the wise tend to find their burial markers. Travel Challenges are small 
encounters that the Drifters find on their journey, hurrying them along or 
slowing them down based on the whims of fate. 
	Everyday that the Drifters are travelling, they will roll 2d10 to determine 
if they had a Travel Challenge or Encounter that day. If the result has two of 
the same number, or ÅgDubs,Åh they have a Random Encounter in addition to 
their Travel Challenge. 

Travel Challenge
Travelling on . . .
2d10
Roads
15+
Paths
10+
Hazardous
8+
Wayfinding
6+


Travel Challenge (2d10)
2d10
2 - 4
5 - 9
10 - 12
13 - 17
18-20
Attribute or Skill
ATB
Skill
ATB
Skill
ATB
Difficulty
-6 / -30%
-3 / -15%
0
+3 / +15%
+6 / +30%
Consequence
Endurance Damage
Durability Damage
Lost Time
Durability Damage
Endurance Damage

Endurance Damage
The Drifter suffers a complication and takes damage to their 
Endurance. They take a total of 2d10 Damage.

Durability Damage
The DrifterÅfs armor or gear takes serious damage, taking a 
total of 2d10 Damage to their Armor or Vehicle.

Lost Time
The Drifter has set back the group, losing a total of 1d6 Miles 
from the groupÅfs entire progress. If multiple Drifters fail the 
Travel Challenge, this effect is cumulative and may lose the 
entire dayÅfs distance, but negative distance cannot occur.


Roadway Encounters
D12
A People . . 
Are Currently . . .
However . . .
1
Soldiers
Horribly Lost
Something is Amiss
2
Bandits
Looking for Prey
Clearly Going Wrong
3
Merchants
Hiding from Something
Deception is Afoot
4
Peasants
In Need of Help
Another Party Observes
5
Beasts
In Disguise
Supernatural Happenstance
6
Travellers
Helping another Group
Fabulous Treasure
7
Foreign Exos
Attacking another Group
Dignitaries of a Group
8
Monsters
Negotiating with a Group
A Friendly Face
9
Pilgrims
Bonepicking the Dead
Pulling a Prank
10
Robots
Celebrating a Victory
Mistaken Identity
11
Nobility
Resting for a Spell
Diseased
12
Splurgoth Slave Carrier
ÅgOfficial BusinessÅh
Weird Clothing & Symbols

Pathway Encounters
D12
Something on the Way
Mystery
However . . .
1
A Hidden Cave
A Weird Letter
ItÅfs a Ruse
2
A Dead Body
Jewels & Trinkets
ItÅfs for Someone Else
3
A Faction Dignitary
Signs of a Magical Battle
Never Meant to Be Seen
4
A Band of Soldiers
Empty Wagons
ITÅfS A TRAP!
5
A Group of Thieves
Corpses Everywhere
Malicious Forces
6
Abandoned Vehicle
Hostile Anomaly
Awful Smell
7
Lumbering Creature
Bounty Notes
Strange Sounds
8
Wicked Monster
Laser Marks and Spent Casings
The Lingering Curse
9
Impromptu Toll Booth
Confused Traveller
Supernatural Distortion
10
Splurgoth Slave Carrier
DIstorted Reality
Supplies a plenty, too plenty
11
Exo Creature
Cursed Object
Distorted Place
12
Deranged Individual
Burning Pyre
Strangely Peaceful

Wayfinding Encounters
D12
Off the Beaten Track
A Sign of Interest
But of Course . . .
1
Scenic View
Makeshift Shrine
There are Enemies
2
A Refugee Village
Loose Supplies
Psychic Powers Resonate Here
3
Mutant Freaks
Hidden Stash
Stalking Creature
4
Old Battleground
An Old Grimoire
Hunting Grounds
5
Farm
A Bag of Valuables
Sacred Territory
6
A Quiet Homestead
Field of Rare Flowers
Being Observed
7
Old Broken Down Vehicle
Broken Weapon
Traps and Tricks
8
Old Grave Markers
Half-Destroyed Armor
Cultists
9
Tribal Scouting Party
Half-Carved Game
Mad Animals
10
Military Detachment
A Mangled Body
Splurgoth Slave Carrier
11
Recently Used Campsite
Victim of Circumstance
Thick with Miasma
12
Poorly Armed Thugs
Directions to Somewhere
Demons
?

Hazardous Encounters
D12
The Environment is . . .
And itÅfs currently . . .
We need to . . .
1
Thick with Miasma
Being Patrolled
Navigate Around It
2
Filled with Radiation
Splurgoth Slave Carrier
Push Through It
3
CURRENTLY ON FIRE
Being Investigated
Carefully Navigate
4
Supernatural Phenomenon
Being used for an Ambush
Rush as Fast as Possible
5
Filled with Exos
The site of a battle
Get a Vehicle Here
6
An Earthblood Wound
Home to a Monster
Go Around, ItÅfs Suicide!
7
Alive
Filled with Loot!
Avoid WhateverÅfs Here
8
Quiet, Too Quiet
A Graveyard to Failures
Follow a Marked Path
9
Signposted with Dangers
A Calming Sight
Follow the right Path
10
Also a Minefield
Being Observed
Not Get Lost in the Maze
11
Filled with Anomalies
Being used as hunting grounds
Complete the Puzzle
12
Strangely Docile
A Dumping Ground
Fight Out of Here

The Wayward Notes - ATB vs Skill Travel Challenges
	Rolling for a random Travel Challenge has the GM determine if it is an ATB or Skill Challenge. 
ATB Travel Challenges are brute forcing the situation as hard as possible, with 8 Attributes it's also 
easy to roll a 1d8 to determine the relevant Attribute to be tested in that situation. Skill Challenges 
are a bit more haphazard, due to the breadth of available Skills for the Drifters to rely on. 
	When a Skill Travel Challenge occurs, the GM will need to have a rough idea what the 
situation is and how to bypass it. The safest option is relying on Wilderness Skills to carry the day, 
though the GM may always roll on the following chart to determine what the scenario is to present 
to the Drifters.

D8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
ATB
ANM
BRV
COM
FIN
HRD
POW
SPD
WIL
Situation
People
Monster
Magic
Psychic
Roguery
Domestic
Tech
Science

?
Demeanor
	No one is an island, the Drifter will encounter a number of people on their adventures, from 
close allies, scheming tyrants, and the occasional bystander willing to help or talk it out. The Drifter will 
be naturally measuring their relationship with people and situations through their Demeanor.
	Demeanor is the measure of how receptive others are toward the Drifter and what they have 
to say to them. Each Drifter is different and the initial impressions some leave can have a lasting 
impact on people's perception of them. Not to say everyone is going to be immediately friendly 
towards a Drifter with good looks and smooth voice, though it does help.
	Base Demeanor shows how receptive a person is toward the Drifter. A Demeanor of 10 to 12 
may indicate being neutral to a bit friendly, while a Demeanor of 19 may indicate obsession with the 
Character to the point of being unhealthy. But, having a Demeanor of 4 with someone may indicate a 
simmering hatred that can't be quelled easily. 

Influence Checks
	What does Demeanor do though? Demeanor grants a Modifier for the Drifter when using their 
Attributes or Skills to manipulate, persuade, or convince someone to do something. This is called an 
Influence Check.
	Influence Checks have the Drifter make a Attribute or Skill Check against the target in an effort 
to convince them to do something. The more absurd or outlandish the request, the more difficult it 
becomes. 

Request 
Sample
Safe & 
Simple
Appeal to 
Alignment
Appeal to
Goals
Standard
Opposed to 
Goals
Opposed to 
Alignment
Dangerous
Request
Modifier
+30% / +6
+20% / +4
+10% / +2
0 / 0
-10% / -2
-20% / -4
-30% / -6

	Influencing using Attributes is trying to overwhelm the opponent through sheer force of 
character or actions, prompting the target to make a Willpower Save to oppose it. However, the limits 
of these Influence Checks are simple and direct - "I want to get into the bar" is a simple enough 
request and a charismatic person may be able to bat their eyelashes and walk in unimpeded. 
Alternatively, using a Skill Check is more focused and allows the Drifter to make more nuanced and 
complicated requests, using a combination of smooth talkings, schmoozing, and presentation to get 
the results needed. "I want to get into the bar while hiding a holdout pistol in my belt" would prompt 
the Drifter to make the proper Skill Check to navigate out of this situation. If a Skill Check succeeds, 
often there iss no need to make a Willpower Save unless it is something extremely suspicious or 
dangerous.





Changing Demeanor
Å@Å@Å@Demeanor shifts and changes the more someone interacts with another person. Most of the 
time the various characters and creatures being influenced are in the background and may only come 
up again later, but others may be Side Characters in their own right.
	The Drifter may write down a number of Contacts as specified in their Demeanor and actively 
shape their perception of the Drifter and their issues. Some of these "slots" may be filled in before the 
Drifter even begins their adventure, others may be written in as the Drifter wanders.
	If the Drifter  works with, assists, or actively helps a Contact they will increase their Demeanor 
by +1 at the end of the Session. This indicates that they have become more receptive and friendly with 
the Character, working together to help one another. On the other hand, if the Character is asking 
huge favors or making intimidating demands, their Demeanor may lower by -1 / -2 / -4 depending on 
the severity. 
	It's far harder to build a relationship than it is to destroy one.

Being Influenced
	The Drifter isn't the only one with the ability to influence others, any Character with the 
appropriate skills and abilities may also attempt to influence the Drifter to perform actions or compel 
them into a situation.
	The Drifter being ÅginfluencedÅh by others is an easy way to develop the Contact. Taking time off 
to go work a side gig, a dangerous request, or running simple errands may go a long way for them.
	However, if the Drifter wants to resist this Influence they will be making a Willpower Save with a 
penalty equal to the Demeanor of the requestor. Should they fail they'll be forced to go along with the 
request or suffer catastrophic Demeanor loss . Success means they ward off helping them (for now) 
though it won't improve their relationship at all. 

?
Horror Factor
Å@Å@Å@The world is filled with terrifying things, brain eating slugs, face melting hazards, horrible brain 
frying psychics, and the occasional dimensional freak of nature that vibrates in and out of our reality. 
Situations and individuals may have a Horror Factor to measure how horrible and frightening 
something is.
	Horror Factor is measured from 0 to a negative value. Most entities in the world do not have a 
Horror Factor, even possessing a 0 instills a certain uneasiness in others. When the Drifters encounter 
someone with a Horror Factor, they will make an Anima or Willpower Save and apply their Horror 
Factor as a penalty to their Check.
	Anima based Horror Factor is physical and immediate, a revulsion that causes others to recoil in 
fear. Willpower based Horror Factor is emotional or cerebral, relying more on the implication of "What 
if" than anything immediate. In short, Anima is used for watching a friend be vaporized by a creature, 
Willpower for realizing the creature is terrifying to begin with.
	Succeeding at a Horror Factor Save has the Drifter harden their resolve, nothing occurs and 
they take no immediate penalty to the situation. If they are confronted with a different variant of the 
Horror Factor (Anima or Willpower) they will need to make the Save again. Failing the Horror Factor 
Save has the Drifter flinch, taking a penalty to all actions equal to the Horror Factor for the remainder 
of the scene or until the creature is defeated.
	If Horror Factor is 0, then no penalties are given, but the revulsion and recoil is immediately felt 
and may be acted upon by an opposing force.

Situation
Disfigured 
Mutant Freak
Psychic 
Cannibal
Ally Caught in 
Brain Twister
Catastrophic 
Loss of Life
Demonic 
Legionnaire
Splurgoth 
Slaver
Horror Factor
0
-1
-2
-3
-4
-5


Companions & Mounts
	During their travels, the Drifters may encounter others who are willing to help them and even 
tag along to offer their skills and talents. Companions are the catch-all term for those brave souls 
willing to accompany the Drifters into the thick of things.
	The requisite for being a Companion is "Free Will" which is the ability for them to reject the 
Drifters or simply run away when they get scared enough.
	Companions have one to three Concepts which measure their relevant abilities and skills in a 
condensed fashion. A Companion may be a "Coalition Soldier 15" meaning that whenever a Check is 
called in which it is relevant, they will use their [Coalition Soldier] Concept as either their Attribute or 
Skill (multiplying their Concept by 5).
	Each Companion will have Endurance equal to their highest Concept and Health equal to half 
of that in addition to any armor and weapons they may carry. Finally, each Companion will have 
Loyalty measured from 0 to 20. Whenever the Companion is ordered to do something dangerous, 
risky, or outside of their expertise, they will make a Loyalty Check by rolling a D20 under their Loyalty. 
	If it is successful, the Companion will attempt the task or at least provide what assistance they 
can.  If they fail this Check, if their Loyalty is above 0, they will lose 1d6 Loyalty and may refuse the 
request outright. If they had 0 or would reduce them to 0, they will leave the group at their earliest 
convenience.
	A unique type of companion is a Mount, rather than being a thinking person with a life to live 
and problems to worry about, mounts are animals that are ridden by the Drifter for various reasons. 
Each Mount will either be a Quick, Draft, or Caravan Mount, with their first Concept being labelled as 
such. 
	Controlling a Mount requires the use of the Animal Husbandry Skill to manage them in the midst 
of the action. The Mount is by itself intelligent enough to be given orders that they'll follow, Loyalty only 
being tested when presented with something that could frighten, excite, or injure them. 

The Wayward Notes - Mounts in Combat
	If the Drifter is riding their majestic horse, lizardbat, or raptorhawk into battle, theyÅfll need to 
make sure what theyÅfre doing. 


Quick
Draft
Caravan
Pace
5
4
1
Combat Check vs 
Unmounted Enemy
+1 to Melee
-3 to Range
+2 to Melee
-2 to Range
+2 to Melee
+2 to Range
NSR
3
2
-
Rider NSR Bonus
+3
+2
+1


?
Exposure
Å@Å@Å@Oftentimes the real killer of vagabonds and strangers on the Errant Earth is a combination of 
the elements or other haphazard situations. Exposure is the catch-all term for various environmental 
hazards that the Drifters may encounter.
	When in a situation that would constitute Exposure, such as being in the blazing heat or biting 
cold, the GM will establish the Exposure Rating starting at D4. Every Scene in which the Drifters are 
present and subjected to the Exposure they will reduce their Endurance by the die size indicated. Thus 
a D10 Heat Exposure would reduce everyone's Endurance by D10 every Scene they are in without the 
proper gear to protect them.
Å@Å@Å@Exposure may be declared as either a Stacking or Consistent modifier. A Stacking Modifier 
increases the die size by one step every Scene the Drifter is exposed to, raising gradually until they die 
or are lost. While a Consistent modifier will remain at its Exposure Rating until a change in conditions or 
a situation has occurred. 
	Hazardous Environment Suit Armor has a Resistance Rating for different types of exposure, 
lowering the die size by a number of steps equal to the Resistance Rating. A full Coalition Self-
Contained Armor System has a Resistance of 5 toward Heat, Cold, and Radiation. Thus if they were 
subjected to a D20 level of Heat, normally lethal to anyone else, they would instead reduce it to D4.

Air Supply
Heat
Cold
Radiation
Earthblood
Starvation
Stacking
Consistent
Consistent
Consistent
Consistent
Stacking
Seconds
Hours
Hours
Minutes
Days
Days

D0
D4
D6
D8
D10
D12
D20
D20+D4+
Negligible
Trivial
Minor
Major
Serious
Dangerous
Lethal
Suicide

?
Downtime Actions
	The Drifters are always on the move and often only staying in one place long enough to rest up 
before roving out once again. However, during these moments of contemplation and peace, they 
have some downtime to pursue their own objectives and goals. 
	During Downtime, the Drifters are allowed to converse, relax, or work on various projects they 
have before them. The Drifters are free to pursue their own goals during Downtime, with the GM 
electing to resolve Scenes involving the Drifters in any order they wish or on a first come, first serve, 
basis. 
Dramatis Personae
The Drifter begins a conversation with an important 
member of the ensemble or others that may be a part of 
their immediate group. If they are in a settlement, they are 
free to talk with anyone in it.  

Field Repairs
The Drifter patches up their vehicles or armor themselves. 
They make the appropriate Skill Check to improve 
Durability efficiently, or increase Durability by +1d6.
If there is a workshop or other self-repair centers, they 
may increase this bonus to +1d12. 

Private
The Drifter goes off to resolve their own private issues, 
others may tag along if they wish. 

Resting 
The Drifter rests and relaxes, recovering their Endurance 
or Health naturally. If they do not need to recover, they 
may instead relax socially with others attempting to 
recover, increasing their Recovery by +2.

Stocking Up
The Drifter hits the markets or starts a scavenging spree in 
the local area. They may find something useful, or lose 
what little credits they have.


?
The Marketplace
	In the ruins of the Old World, the belief that one manÅfs trash is anotherÅfs treasure has taken on 
different meanings and nuances. Filled with old technology and mixed with the bustling industrial hubs 
of the new world, the Errant Earth has a plethora of weapons, armor, gear, and nearly anything else 
that a Drifter may need to succeed at their adventures and survive to tell others about their deeds.
	But where there is a need, there is the siren call of profit. Nothing is ever truly free on the Errant 
Earth, whether it must be paid in credit, deed, or blood is to be seen. 

The Wayward Notes - Credits, Baubles, and You
	Throughout the Marketplace, the term ÅgCreditsÅh will be mentioned frequently. Great Lakes 
Credits, or GLC, are the default currency in the Great Lakes Confederacy and most of the 
surrounding area. If the GM is not setting the game in the Confederacy, then the term ÅgCreditsÅh 
may be changed to anything from Marks, Sticks, Bells, Dollars, or any other kind of legal tender. The 
costs presented in Errant Earth are assumed to be a Partially Industrialized Post-Apocalypse 
Society.
	If the GM wishes to adjust the prices for different regions, situations, or currency deviations, 
then modifying costs in 25% increments is reasonable. If something is 100 in a ÅgStandardÅh area, an 
isolated community may have it cost 300 (300%) or a much more wealthy area with more ready 
access to the good may have it cost 50 (-50%).

The Current Market Rate

On Market
Black Market
Grey Market
Flush Market
Starved Market
Buy Value
Base
2x
1.5x
.5x
10x
Sell Value
10% of Cost
50% of Cost
25% of Cost
1% of Cost
Base
Reason
Item is sold as a 
standard Commodity
Items are Sold 
exclusively as illegal 
wares.
Items are sold in a 
grey area of legality.
Items are in extreme 
abundance.
Items here are 
desperately needed, 
but rarely provided.


Å@Å@Å@Formality is how easy it is for the Drifter to wear the armor and have their weapons in public 
without attracting attention - most civilized locations demand that outsiders take off their armor or 
surrender their weapons down to an ÅgAcceptableÅh Level upon entering, while rougher areas may have 
few restrictions. Areas that request a surrender often have a process for wanderers coming in, often a 
secure locker with assurances. For less trusting Drifters, storing armor in a vehicle or case before 
entering may be ideal for winning trust.
Å@Å@Å@Surrendered Weapons are often either deposited in the same safety deposit boxes or have 
other ways of detecting that they are harmless. Other times itÅfs a ÅgDonÅft See It, DonÅft Worry About ItÅh 
policy where as long as itÅfs not drawn, itÅfs not offending anybody. 

Formality
0
1 - 2
3 - 4
5 - 6
7 - 8
9 - 10
11+
Anywhere
City Outskirts
Frontier 
Town
Homestead
Bandit Town
Lawless Zone
Warzone
Packs
	Every Drifter begins with two Packs of their choice from the options presented from their 
Backgrounds and Occupations. A Pack is a small collection of items and goods that the Drifter starts 
out with. If the Drifter doesnÅft want particular goods inside of their Pack, they may choose to sell them 
at the basic exchange rate of 25% of its base cost allowing any excess Credits to be used to buy 
starting equipment they can afford. Each Pack does come with a set of Credits as their initial funds.

Packs
Contents
Credits
Aeronautics
Three Outfits, Light UA OEV Armor, Medium OA HEV Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, 
Bedroll, Two Pack Items, Two Belt Items, One Utility Item
2d6 * 100
Ascetic
One Outfit, Light UA Standard Damage Armor, Default SDC Melee Weapon Backpack, Bedroll, 
One Pack Item, One Belt Item
0
Civilian
Two Outfits, Light OA PEV Armor, Default Light Pistol Backpack, Bedroll, Three Pack Items, Two 
Belt Items
4d6 * 50
Delver
Two Outfits, Light UA HEV Armor, Default Rifle or Shotgun Weapon, Default Knife,Backpack, 
Bedroll, Two Pack Items, Four Belt Items, Two Utility Items
500
Destitute
One Outfit, Default Rifle Class Weapon, Backpack, One Belt Item
0
Exile
Two Outfits, Nice Outfit, Medium UA PEV Armor, Heavy OA HEV Armor, Default Automatic or 
Rifle Class Weapon, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, Two Pack Items, Two Belt Items, 
Two Utility Items.
1d10 * 50
Handyman
Two Outfits, Medium OA HEV Armor, Light PLATE Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, 
Bedroll, Three Pack Items, Three Belt Items, 
2d10 * 100
High 
Society
Four Outfits, Two Nice Outfits, Light UA OEV Armor, Default Rifle or Handgun Class Weapon, 
Backpack, Bedroll, One Belt Item, Three Utility Items
1d100 * 25
Magician
Two Outfits, Light UA OEV Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack item, Two 
Belt Items, Two Utility Items
1d10 * 100
Merchant
Three Outfits, Medium UA PEV Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, Four Pack Items, 
Three Belt Items, One Utility Item
1d6 * 500
Outlaw
One Outfit, Light UA PEV Armor, Medium OA HEV Armor, Default SMG, Rifle, or Shotgun Class 
Weapon, Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack Item, One Belt Item, and Two Utility Items
1d10 * 10
Professional
Two Outfits, Light UA PEV Armor, Default Rifle or SMG Class Weapon, Default Light Pistol, 
Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack Items, Two Belt Items, Two Utility Items
1d20 * 200
Psychic
Two Outfits, Light UA OEV Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack item, Two 
Belt Items, Two Utility Items
1d10 * 100
Scholarship
Three Outfits, Nice Outfit, Light UA HEV Armor, Default Light Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, Three 
Pack Items, Two Utility Items
1d6 * 250
Soldier
Two Outfits, Medium UA HEV Armor, Medium OA PEV Armor, Light PLATE Armor, default 
Assault, Rifle, Shotgun, or SMG, Default Heavy Pistol, Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack Item, Two 
Belt Items, Two Utility Items
1d10 * 100
Vagabond
Two Outfits, Medium UA HEV Armor, Default D6 Damage Die Weapon, Default D4 Damage Die 
Weapon, Backpack, Bedroll, One Pack Item, Two Belt Items
1d6 * 25
Wilderness
One Outfit, Light OA OEV Armor, Default Battle Rifle, Default D6 Damage Die Melee Weapon, 
Backpack, Bedroll, Solo Tent, Two Pack Items, Three Belt Items,
1d4 * 10

Trading Out Backpack & Bedroll
150 Credits


Weapons
	The cruel reality of the modern day is that people get hurt, often by other people, but the occasional raging monsters or invasions 
of troglodyte Exos tend to leave many dead. Since the dawn of man, the weapon has served as a symbol of defiance against this reality 
and has reinforced it all the more. Over the millenia and across the stars, weapon development has never ceased and the desire to get 
an ÅgedgeÅh on the opposition via superior firepower has defined entire eras and civilization. 
	On the Errant Earth, weaponry is a symbol of the old and new world, the rifle holding back the horde of creatures in this hostile 
world just as much as being the tool used to place others in the dirt. Weapon innovation has only been matched by the constantly 
expanding needs and tastes of the world, building more elaborate weapons or putting more firepower per bullet. 
	ItÅfs theoretically impossible to categorize every variant of every weapon on the Errant Earth, a single rifle may have a dozen 
variations in a region alone let alone the countless variants and half-variants made by competition or rivals in others. To symbolize the 
most basic weapons in the field, they are referred to as ÅgDefaultÅh Weapons, while the name may change, the ÅgDefaultÅh Weapon is the 
standard template in which all its variants and mimics are built from .
 
	A WeaponÅfs Damage is the number of Damage Die that the Drifter will roll on a 
successful attack, reducing the Durability of their Armor or dealing Endurance Health 
Damage. Payload is the amount of ammunition a standard magazine or E-Mag would 
contain - Kinetic Magazines are variable in size and are often hand loaded or machine fed, 
while E-Mags are One-Size Fits All manufactured energy packs that fit inside the weapon. 
A WeaponÅfs Rate of Fire is how much of a Payload the Firearm is able to put down range, 
holding down the trigger down longer to take on a larger amount of penalties for the 
benefit of improving the amount of damage the weapon will do for the attack. Weapon 
Range is how many Spaces the weapon may be used within, if the Target is outside of 
Minimum or Maximum Range, a -2 Penalty-to-Hit is applied per excess Space. The 
Weapon Proficiency dictates which WP the Drifter uses to use Weapon Expertises. 
Handiness is the number of Hands required to successfully use the weapon. The WeaponÅfs 
Damage Type indicates what kind of Damage the weapon does, most Default WEapons 
deal either Physical or Energy Damage. Finally any Tags the Weapon has to give it special 
mechanics or features.

Weapon Handiness
One-Hand
Drifter requires a single hand to use the weapon 
successfully.
Main Hand
The Drifter requires the use of their dominant 
hand to use.
Two-Hand
The Drifter requires both hands to use the 
weapon well.
Full Body
The Drifter requires their full body to use the 
weapon, all hands on deck (literally)



Firearms
	The Firearm is the bedrock of the modern military machine, every Drifter has one, every soldier wants a better one, and every 
company wants to build the next best one. Each Default Firearm may be taken as a SD or MD variant with the cost being labeled for 
priority. SD Firearms use conventional ammunition of the old world, 9mm, 5.56, and so on. While deadly if used on the unarmored or 
unaware, they will do little against anyone who is Mega Damage Capable or has any MD Armor. MD Firearms rely on heavy caliber 
rounds or highly charged laser fire with energy weapons - if used on an unsuspecting individual they will be torn apart or disintegrated 
on impact, if they are wearing armor they may survive the initial barrage before itÅfs punctured. 

ROF Kinetic Weapons

Aimed Shot | AS
Short Burst | SB
Long Burst | LB
Full Auto | FA
Payload Used
1
4
10
20
Damage Multiplier
-
x2
x3
x6
Penalty To-Hit
-
-2
-4
-6

ROF Energy Weapons

Single Cycle | SC
Cycler I / C1
Cycler 2 / C2
Cycler 3 / C3
Payload Used
1
5
10
20
Extra Damage Die
-
+1d
+2d
+4d
Penalty To-Hit
-
-2
-4
-6


?

Default Archaic Ranged
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Longbow
3d4
1 | Arrow (SD)
1 | X-Arrow (MD)
AS
1 - 4
Archaic 
Projectiles
Full
Physical
600
2
Ranged, Reliable, 
Recoil
Crossbow
6d4
1 | Bolt (SD)
1 | X-Bolt (MD)
AS
2 - 5
Archaic 
Projectiles
Full
Physical
1200
4
Ranged, Recoil

Default Assault Firearms
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Assault Rifle
2d6
30 | Magazine 
45 | Extended Mag
AS / SB / LB / FA
1 - 5
Kinetics 
Automatics
Two
Physical
10,000
5
Reliable, 
Suppression
Energy  Squad 
Automatic Weapon
2d8
20 | E-Mag 
40 | Extendo E-Mag
SC / C1 / C2 / C3
2 - 7
Energy 
Automatics
Two
Energy
26,000
8
Suppression, Heavy
Energy Assault Rifle
2d8
10 | E-Mag 
30 | Extendo E-Mag
SC / C1 / C2 / C3
1 - 5
Energy 
Automatics
Two
Energy
14,000
6
Reliable, 
Suppression
Energy Large 
Automatica
1d8
100 | E-Box
50 | E-Mag
SC / C1 / C2 / C3
3 - 8
Heavy 
Weapons
Full
Energy
16,000
7
Crew Load, 
Suppression, Heavy
Heavy Machine Gun
1d6
150 | Box
300 | Belt
SB / LB / FA 
3 - 8
Heavy 
Weapons
Full
Physical
25,000
6
Suppression, Brace
Squad Automatic 
Weapon
2d6
30 | Magazine 
60 | Extended 
Magazine
SB / LB / FA
2 - 7
Kinetic 
Automatics
Two
Physical
20,000
7
Suppression, Brace


Default Handguns
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Auto-Pistol
1d4
20 | Magazine 
70 | Box Mag
AS / SB / LB / FA
0 - 3
Kinetics 
Handguns
One
Physical
2,750
2
 Suppression, 
Conceal
Heavy Handgun
2d4
12 | Magazine
AS
0 - 3
Kinetic 
Handguns
Main
Physical
3,500
3
Recoil
Laser Charger
2d6
15 | E-Clip
C1 / C2
0 - 3
Energy 
Handgun
Main
Energy
6,000
2

Laser Pistol
1d6
10 | E-Clips
20 | Extendo E-Clip
SC / C1 
1 - 5
Energy 
Handgun
One
Energy
5,000
1
Conceal
Light Handgun
1d4
16 | Magazine
AS / SB
0 - 3
Kinetic 
Handguns
One
Physical
2,500
1
Suppression, Heavy
Revolver
3d4
6 | Cylinder
AS
1 - 5
Kinetic 
Handguns
Main
Physical
3,000
2
Recoil

 ?

Default Rifle Firearms
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Anti-Material Rifle
2d10
7 | Magazine
AS
4 - 9
Heavy 
Weapons
Full
Physical
27,000
10
Recoil, Heavy
Battle Rifle
3d6+2
30 | Magazine 
45 | Extended Mag
AS / SB
2 - 7
Kinetic Long 
Arms
Two
Physical
8,000
5
 Suppression
Carbine
2d6+2
30 | Magazine 
45 | Extended Mag
AS
1 - 5
Kinetic Long 
Arms
Two
Physical
7,000
5
Reliable
Designated Marksman 
Rifle
3d6+5
15 | Magazine 
5 | Light Magazine
AS
2 - 7
Kinetic Long 
Arms
Full
Physical
12,000
6
Scoped, Recoil
Energy  Designated 
Marksman Rifle
4d8
10 | E-Mag
SC
2 - 7
Energy Long 
Arms
Full
Energy
18,000
7
Scoped, Recoil
Sniper Rifle
4d6+3
7 | Magazine 
24 | Box Mag
AS
4 - 9
Kinetic Long 
Arms
Full
Physical
14,000
7
Scoped, Heavy, 
Recoil
Standard Laser Rifle 
(SLR)
3d8
6 | E-Mag
SC / C1
1 - 5
Energy Long 
Arms
Two
Energy
11,000
6
Recoil

Default Shotguns
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Automatic Shotgun
3d6
12  | Shells
AS / SB
0 - 3
Kinetic 
Automatics
Two
Physical
8,000
8
 Shotgun
Cycler RIfle
3d6
5 | Pulsar Slug
AS
0 - 2
Energy Long 
Arms
Two
Energy
10,000
6
Shotgun
Pump Shotgun
4d6
6 | Shells
AS
0 - 2
Kinetic Long 
Arms
Two
Physical
6,000
4
Shotgun, Reliable, 
Recoil
Sawn Off Shotgun
5d6
2 | Shells
AS
0 - 1
Kinetic 
Handguns
Main
Physical
5,000
4
Conceal, Shotgun


Default Submachine Guns
Damage
Payload
Rate of Fire
Range
MD WP
Handiness
Damage Type
Credits
Formality
Tags
Heavy Submachine Gun
2d6
15 |  Light Magazine 
30 | Magazine
AS / SB / FB / FA
1 - 5
Kinetic 
Automatics
Two
Physical
6,000
7
 Suppression
Laser Rapid Fire 
Weapon (LRFW)
2d8
30 | E-Clip
SC / C1 / C2 / C3
0 - 3
Energy 
Automatics
Two
Physical
8,000
8
 Suppression
Light Submachine Gun
2d4+1
24 | Magazine
48 | Extended 
Magazine
AS
0 - 3
Kinetic 
Automatics
Main
Physical
4,000
4
 Suppression
Personal Defense 
Weapon
3d6+1
50 | Magazine
SB / FB / FA
1 - 5
Kinetic 
Automatics
Two
Physical
7,000
7
 Suppression

Melee
	Melee Weapons serve as a suitable sidearm for a majority of circumstances, though few soldiers or brave heroes want to be the 
first one face to face with a raging creature or other such monter. A majority of Melee Weapons in the modern day are designed for 
Standard Damage, its value being used to either intimidate or strike a decisive blow in the eye socket of an enemy. MD Melee Weapons 
tend to be either made of MD Capable material such as Dragon Tooth or Palladium, or using specialized technology to augment it, such 
as through Vibrotech.
	Unlike Firearms or other Ranged Weapons, Melee Weapons do not have an established Range, instead they are considered to be 
at Range 0 (or Melee) which indicates that the Target is within the same Space as them or they are in a CQC Situation. 

Default Melee Weapons
Damage
MD WP
Handiness
Formality
Credits
Tags
Knife
1dX
Modern Melee Weapons
One
0
600
Conceal
Shortsword
2dX
Modern Melee Weapons
One
1
1200

Longsword
3dX
Modern Melee Weapons
Main
2
2000
Grip
Handaxe
2dX
Modern Melee Weapons
One
1
500

Greataxe
3dX
Modern Melee Weapons
Two
3
1300
Sunder
Polearm
2dX
Modern Melee Weapons
Two
3
800
Reach
Hammer
2dX
Modern Melee WEapons
One
1
500
Stagger. Grip
Greathammer
3dX
Modern Melee Weapons
Two
3
1400
Stagger

Melee Weapon Types
Damage Die
Damage Type
Payload
Formality
Credit Value
Restrictions
Tags
[Standard Damage]
D6
Physical
-
-2
Base * .10
NA

Vibration
D6
Physical
-
+3
Base * 2
Bladed Only
Alternate
Superheated
D8
Fire
-
+4
Base * 4
NA

Energon
D8
Energy
100 | E-Clip
+2
Base * 3
NA

Enchanted
D10
Choose
-
0
Base * 100
NA

Ramshackle
D6
Physical
-
+1
Base * .5
NA
Delicate
Fallout
D8
Radiation
50 | E-Clip
+3
Base * 6
Blunt Only

?
Shields
	While combat operations have gradually escalated to more heavy firepower, when confronting enemies in close quarters or 
escaping the jaws of a monster, shields have seen a resurgence in popular combat. Shields may be used as a Melee Weapon, but their 
Block Capacity allows them to absorb damage from attacks and increase the AR of the Drifter for enhanced protection. When a Shield is 
broken, it will need to be repaired alongside armor and weapons that may have been damaged.

Shields
Damage
Block Capacity
AR
MD WP
Handiness
Formality
Credits
Bucker
1d4
15
0 / +1
Modern Melee Weapons
One
2
1500
Armguard
1d6
30
5 / +2
Modern Melee Weapons
One
4
3000
Full Shield
1d8
60
6 / +3
Modern Melee Weapons
Main
6
4000

Unarmed Techniques
Å@Å@Å@Every Drifter knows how to throw a punch or kick away a problem if they get too close. More advanced Unarmed Techniques 
come from developing these abilities further or taking the appropriate Martial Art Weapon Specialization. All Drifters know the Punch, 
Kick, and Wrestle Unarmed Attacks. Unarmed Attacks base damage will increase as the Strength of the Drifter increases, granting them 
more and more benefits toward their abilities - Drifters may always restrain their attacks to use a weaker variant of the attack if they 
wish.

Unarmed 
Attacks
Strength 13 or Less
Strength 14 - 15
Strength 16 - 18
Strength 19 - 22
Strength 22 - 24
Strength 25+
# of Actions 
to Use
Punch
1d3 SD
1d4 SD
1d6 SD
3d6 SD / 1 MD
5d6 SD / 1d4 MD
5d8 SD / 1d6 MD
1
Kick
1d6+1 SD
1d8+2 SD
1d10+3 SD
3d6+4 SD / 2 MD
5d6+5 SD / 1d4+1  MD
5d8+6 SD / 1d6+2 MD
2

Unarmed 
Attacks
Strength 13 or Less
Strength 14 - 15
Strength 16 - 18
Strength 19 - 22
Strength 22 - 24
Strength 25+
# of Actions 
to Use
To-Hit
Chop
1d6 SD
1d6+2 SD
1d8 SD
2d8 SD / 1 MD
4d8 SD / 1d6 MD
6d8 SD / 1d6+1 MD
1
-2
The Drifter unleashes a devastating Chop with their hand, granting their Attack the Stagger Tag.
Flying Kick
1d8 SD
1d10 SD
1d12 SD
2d10 SD / 2 MD
4d10 SD / 1d6 MD
4d12 SD / 1d8 SD
2
-3
The Drifter leaps toward an enemy with an elaborate jumping kick, they may move to an Adjacent Space and then make their attack. 
Slap
1 SD
1d4 SD
1d4+1 SD
2d4+2 SD
3d4+3 SD
4d4+4 SD
1
0
The Drifter backhands or fronthands the enemy, causing emotional damage as well as insulting them to their core.
Roundhouse 
Kick
1d8+1 SD
1d10+2 SD
1d12+3 SD
3d8+4 SD / 2 MD
5d8+5 SD / 1d6+1  
MD
5d10+6 SD / 1d8+2 
MD
2
-2
The Drifter swings their foot around hard, they deal a Critical Hit on a 19 or 20.
Å@Å@Å@When a Drifter engages in a Wrestling Attack, they are attempting to grapple a Target by gripping them and not letting go. 
Rather than detail the complexities, the Drifter makes a Wrestling Combat Check and if successful, they have established a hold. While 
they have a Hold, they are unable to act except make Wrestling Actions, but the grappled Target may also only take Wrestling Actions. 
The Wrestling Attack has a -4 To Hit for each Size the Target is larger than the Drifter, this is +2 To Hit for Targets that are Smaller than 
the Drifter. 
Å@Å@Å@
Break Out
The Drifter attempts to break the hold they are currently in, they make 
an Opposed Combat Check with a -2 against their aggressor, if they 
succeed, they break the grapple on them. If the Drifter has control of 
the Grapple, they may break it automatically.

Choke
The Drifter attempts to choke out the target, if the target requires 
breath and is able to be choked out, the Drifter begins a countdown of 
the TargetÅfs (HRD / 5). It takes that many Rounds, rounded down, to 
successfully KO the Target.

Pinch
The Drifter deals Punch Damage to the Target, they do not require a 
Combat Check to see if they are successful or not. If the TargetÅfs 
Strength is higher than the DrifterÅfs, then this damage is reduced by two 
steps on the Unarmed Punch Attack Chart.

Reversal
The Drifter attempts to turn the tides of the grapple, placing 
themselves in control of whatÅfs going on, A Drifter is required to beat 
the Grappler with an Opposed Combat Check. 

Slam
The Drifter slams the Target to the ground, dealing Kick Damage, but 
breaking the Hold.

Throw
The Drifter throws the Target as hard as they can away from them, 
they are forcefully moved to an Adjacent Space. 

?
Weapon Tags

Tag Name
Tag Effect
Tag Name
Tag Effect
Alternate
The Weapon has a toggle to make it inflict Standard or 
Mega Damage - takes an Action to use.
Paired
A Drifter can attack a second time with their Paired 
weapon for no additional Action.
Anti-Air (AA)
The Weapon negates the ÅgExtra SpacesÅh that Aerial 
Vehicles possess while being in the air . 
Ranged
The Weapon reduces the Penalty for exceeding the 
Max Distance to -1, but increases Penalty for being 
under Minimum Distance to -6.
AT-Weapon
The Weapon is designed to maximize Vehicular 
Damage, adding an additional Damage Due to Vehicle 
Durability. 
Reach
The Melee Weapon has a +2 to Parry other Melee 
Weapons in Melee Combat.
Brace
The Weapon must be braced to be fired (such as being 
in Cover, being Prone, or being Set-Up via Heavy), or 
suffer a -10 to Hit. 
Recoil
The Weapon produces significant recoil when fired, any 
subsequent Action in this Round using this weapon 
suffers a -4 to Hit  - this does stack. 
Conceal
The Weapon may be safely hidden on a person without 
a [Conceal] Skill Check, but can be found with a 
[Search] Skill Check. 
Reliable
If the Drifter has Weapon Proficiency, they have a +2 to 
Hit with the Weapon. 
Crew Load
The Weapon takes two Actions to Reload Successfully, 
unless another Drifter / Companion assists with a 
Reaction. 
Scoped
The Aim Down Sights Weapon Expertise now is a +6 
instead of +4.
Delicate
If the Drifter rolls a 1 on their Attack Check, the weapon 
breaks in their hand.
Shotgun
The Weapon adds a Damage Die when at Range 0.
Gory
The Weapon does double damage to Endurance or 
Health if the Target has no Natural AR.. 
Stagger
The Weapon knocks the wind out of an opponent, 
reducing # of Actions by 1 to a minimum of 1.
Grip
The Weapon can change its grip to Main Hand, Two-
Hand, or Full Body. It gains a Bonus To-Hit of +1 and +2 
respectively. 
Sunder
The Weapon is perfected in the art and breaking down 
heavy armor. Add dealing Durability Damage to Armor, 
add +1d Damage Die. 
Heavy
The Weapon takes an action to set up and an action to 
pick back up.
Suppression
The Drifter may use a Full Auto (FA) Attack on a Space, 
if any Target attempts to move to or from that area, 
they will be hit by a [Aimed Shot] Attack until the end of 
the Round. 
Natural
The Weapon is integrated into the Drifter somehow, 
whether biological or mechanical. It can be drawn for 
free action.
Unwieldy
The weapon is awkward to use, the Drifter has a -2 to 
all of their Attack Checks.
Basic Weapon Workshop
	Should the Drifters find themselves in a rather desperate need for a rather customized weapon, then they may delve deep into 
the backmarkets, exotic traders, lunatic gunsmiths, or the local psychic arms dealer in an attempt to find their perfectly customized tool 
of death. The Weapon Workshop is a quick and dirty way of allowing the GM or the Drifters to customize their weapon to be the 
idealized state of being through modifying its various properties and abilities. While not flawless, nothing beats a Rifle that costs more 
than oneÅfs body and soul to tear apart a wizard at 5 miles away.

Modifications
Description
Increase / Add
Decrease / Remove
# of Dmg Die
Increase or Decrease the Damage Die by 1d
+2,000
-1,000
Rate of Fire
Add or Remove a Rate of Fire Category from the Weapon.
+4,000
-2,000
Max Range
Increase or Decrease the Maximum Range of the Weapon
+1,500
-500
Min Range
Increase or Decrease the Minimum Range of the Weapon
-1,000
+2,000
Handiness
Increase or Decrease the Necessary Hands to use the 
Weapon Successfully by one step (One - Main - Two - Full).
-1,000
+2,000
Damage Type
Change the Damage Type of a Weapon to either a Base 
Element or a False Element. 
8,000 Base Elemental
12,000 False Elemental
Tags
Add or remove a Tag from the Weapon. 
Depends on Tag

Tag Name
Add / Remove
Tag Name
Add / Remove
Alternate
+1500 / 0
Paired
1250 / -500
Anti-Air (AA)
+4500 / -1500
Ranged
1500 / 1500
AT-Weapon
+3000 / -1000
Reach
500 / -50
Brace
-500 / 2500
Recoil
-750 / 2500
Conceal
+250 / -150
Reliable
1000 / -500
Crew Load
-500 / 1500
Scoped
1000 / -500
Delicate
-1000 / +3000
Shotgun
+2500 / 0
Gory
1000 / -1500
Stagger
1000 / -1500
Grip
3000 / -1500
Sunder
1000 / -1500
Heavy
-1000 / +2500
Suppression
1250 / -500
Natural
NA
Unwieldy
-750 / 2500

Missiles
	Rocket propelled explosive payloads require the use of a Missile Launcher or Missile Pod to be successfully employed. Often 
employed in Anti-Vehicle or Anti-Air Capacities, Missiles have proven to be a decisive factor in many engagements, though are 
expensive to purchase making them often a last resort. A Missile loaded into a weapon takes a full Action to complete, after which they 
may fire the Missile with rules dictated based on the type of Missile being fired.
	Due to the delay in firing the Missile, all effects, including Damage, are calculated at the end of the Round. A Drifter may attempt 
to attack a Missile in flight at a -20 to hit its MSR of 8 - upon taking any Mega Damage, it is destroyed instantly. If an Explosive Missile 
does hit, then if the Target is in Light or Heavy Cover, they may make a FIN Save with their Cover Bonus as a modifier. If successful, 
reduce all of the damage to a single Damage Die due to the shock. If there is no cover or they are in a vehicle, then the Missile will 
automatically hit and deal damage.

Flyswatters - Flyswatters is a missile that explodes upon being 
fired into dozens of flechette rounds for unsuspecting enemies. 
Requires a Combat Check to Hit, it will deal 2d4 Damage per 
Swatter Fired.

Fragmentation & High Explosive- Typical Explosive Missiles. 
Targets a Space and will deal damage to everyone inside of that 
Space. If the Target is in Light or Heavy Cover, they may make a 
FIN Save with their Cover Bonus as a modifier. If successful, reduce 
all of the damage

Heavy & Light Guided Missiles  - Using an Onboard System, the 
Drifter guides the dangerous missile towards a Target. They may 
spend additional Actions to improve their chance to hit their 
Target and deal damage similar to a Fragmentation / High 
Explosive Missiles.

Long Flight Missiles  - Using a delayed action accelerate, Long 
Flight Missiles do not record their explosive damage until the end 
of the Turn after the initial firing Round.

Micro Missiles  - A Missile Payload that breaks apart mid flight to 
distribute a number of additional Micro Missiles to saturate a 
target area. With [Spread] the Missile will deal its damage to all 
Targets in all Zones it affects. Due to the saturation effect, Micro 
Missiles have a -4 to Dodge or Save against them. 

Napalm - A catastrophic missile that saturates a number of 
Spaces in burning napalm. All Targets who fail their Save to resist 
it are also set on fire, dealing 1d10 Mega Damage at the end of 
every Round until it is put out.

Screechers - A horrific sound emanates from these missiles as 
they fly through the air, most animals, monsters, and creatures 
with sensitive hearing attempt to run away unless they can make a 
WIL Save.  

Squash Heads - A broad flat headed missile with the goal of 
disrupting the internal chemistry of the occupant. If fired at a 
Vehicle, will deal 1d4 Endurance / Health Damage to all Occupants. 

Starshells  - Deal no damage, but will illuminate a 6-Space Radius 
around them. The Drifter does not need to roll to hit with Starshells. 
If they were to directly shoot at civilians or infantry with Starshells 
however they will deal 1d2 Explosive Damage.


Missile Type
Damage
Damage Type
Range
Tags
Credits
Flyswatters
2d4
Kinetic
0 - 1
Gory, Double Shot
150
Fragmentation
4d8
Explosive
3 - 6
Gory
200
Guided, Heavy
5d10
Explosive
2 - 4
Guided, Anti-Armor
800
Guided, Light
3d10
Explosive
1 - 3
Guided
600
High Explosive
4d12
Explosive
1 - 3
Anti-Armor
250
Long Flight Missiles
3d10
Explosive
3 - 7

375
Micro Missiles
1d4
Explosive
1 - 4
Spread (1d6)
400
Napalm
2d4
Explosive
2 - 4

750
Screechers
1d2
Sonic
2 - 5
Spread (1d3)

Squash Heads
2d10
Special
0 - 2
Sunder, Stagger
400
Starshell
0d0
Explosive
1 - 5
Special Å¶
120

Missile Tag Name
Tag Effect
Double Shot
When making an Attack, may spend two Volleys and double the damage.
Guided
Guided Weapons rely on the Drifter to follow it, the Drifter may spend an additional Action to add a +4 To-Hit.
Spread
Roll the Spread Value, that is the number of Spaces in addition to the TargetÅfs Space that may be struck by the Attack.


Armor
	With the endless march of weaponry comes the ceaseless advance of ways to not die to it. 
Armor is the first, last, and often only line of defense that a Drifter has in the field. Through 
sophisticated materials and painstaking work, conventional armor on the Errant Earth is able to 
sustain damage from Mega Damage sources, preventing the soft gooey individual underneath those 
layers being turned into a fond memory for others to recollect. 
	Similar to Weapons, Armor variations have exceeded the ability to successfully categorize 
them as every two-bit bandit or shining hero has their own customized armor rig to suit their needs. 
Though instead of modifying barrel length and ammunition being loaded into it - Armor is primarily 
categorized based on its function and ability to protect the user. 
 
	The two most important facets of Armor are its Durability and its Armor Rating.
	Armor Durability measures the amount of damage the Armor can absorb before it breaks to 
reveal the Drifter inside. Upon taking the appropriate damage, the Armor Durability will be reduced 
first - slowly whittling away the Drifter's options before they are turned into paste. 
	Armor Rating is the ability for the Armor to outright mitigate damage by it either bouncing or 
being rendered ineffective. It is not the measure of their ability to "avoid being hit" similar to NSR, but 
instead their ability to avoid taking damage from a hit that would have occured. Drifters relying on AR 
over their NSR are betting on either surviving effects in an area or hoping their armor can absorb the 
hits they will be taking. Armor Rating is not added together, instead the ÅgBestÅh Armor Rating is taken, 
and any modifiers through different sources of Armor Rating will add to that value.
	The Drifter will have a Maneuverability Modifier. The Maneuverability Modifier is a simple way 
to ascertain how flexible and able to move the Drifter is, taking a penalty to any action that would 
demand fine movement, quick reflexes, or other such ÅgManeuverability Situations.Åh Finally, there is 
Simmer Rating (SR) - Simmer is how hard it is for the Heat Sinks inside the suit of armor to dissipate a 
build up of Magical or Psychic Heat. Without more open ended and breathy armor, Magicians and 
Psychics risk overheating themselves to sometimes explosive results. The SR directly reduces the 
Magician or PsychicÅfs total Heat they are able to draw upon. 
Å@Å@Å@?
Armor Layers
	Traditional Armor Rig Systems are designed in consideration with the three Layers: Under, 
Over, and Plating.
	Under Armour (UA) fights tight to the skin and isn't immediately noticeable to many if they are 
wearing clothing or any other kind of armor. While it doesn't provide exceptional Armor Durability, it 
does provide simple protection at a discounted price.
	Over Armor (OA) is the "default" consideration for most armor types. The Drifter's Over Armor 
is often bulky and built to last, relying on interlocking series of plates or absorbing tissue to mitigate 
damage coming toward them. It is obvious to almost anyone that a Drifter is wearing their Overarmor.
	Finally Plating (PLATE) is accessorized additions fitted to high impact areas and other serious 
considerations. While bulky and extremely obvious, Plating does allow that extra bit of Durability and 
Armor Rating to pull through in desperate circumstances.
	When a Drifter is adorning themselves in their Armor, they may choose to wear one set of 
Under Armour, Over Armor, and Plating of their choice - adding together all of their Armor Durability 
and Armor Rating together to determine their final amount.

Armor Weights
	To measure the protectiveness of each type of Armor, each one will be assigned a different 
Weight Class. The total Weight of the Armor isn't necessarily how heavy it is to hold or lug around, but 
instead the density and reinforced plates that make up the actual armored sections. In short, the 
Weight Class directly correlates the defensive properties of the Armor being worn.
	There are four Weight Classes: Light, Medium, Heavy, and Juggernaut. Each one comes with its 
own bonuses and drawbacks tied to if it is being used as UA, OA, or PLATEs. Mixing and matching 
Weight Classes is possible (Light Under Armor, Heavy Over Armor, Juggernaut Plating). 

Under Armor (UA) Weight Classes
Durability
AR 
(Base AR / Bonus)
Maneuverability 
Modifier
Simmer Rating
(SR)
Formality
Credit Cost
Light
15
-
-
-
0
3,000
Medium
25
-
-
-
1
5,000
Heavy
35
-
-1 / -5%
2
3
8,000
Juggernaut
45
5 / +0
-2 / -10%
4
5
12,000

Over Armor (UA) Weight Classes
Durability
AR 
(Base AR / Bonus)
Maneuverability 
Modifier
Simmer Rating 
(SR)
Formality
Credit Cost
Light
20
-
-
2
2
9.000
Medium
40
5 / +0
-2 / -10%
4
4
12,000
Heavy
60
6 / +1
-4 / -20%
6
8
15.000
Juggernaut
80
8 / +1
-6 / -30%
8
12
18,000

Plating (PLATE) Weight Classes
Durability
AR 
(Base AR / Bonus)
Maneuverability 
Modifier
Simmer Rating 
(SR)
Formality
Credit Cost
Light
10
0 / +1
-
1
3
2,500
Medium
20
5 / +1
-1 / -5%
3
5
4,500
Heavy
30
6 / +2
-3 / -15%
5
7
6,500
Juggernaut
40
7 / +3
-5 / -25%
7
9
8,500
HEV, PEV, & OEV Variant Suits
Å@Å@Å@Among armorers in the new world, protection from a bullet is the most important aspect of 
armor and associated accessories. Among survivors of the new world, protection from a bullet is often 
the least of their worries as their skin is melting off from radiation. Most UA and OA are built with the 
assumption of being an HEV, PEV, or OEV Suit. Similar to Durability and Armor Rating, Resistances 
between armors do stack, increasing the protection they may possess. However, only the smallest Air 
Supply is considered for purposes of O2 usage. 
Å@Å@Å@Hazardous Environment Suits, or HEV Suits, are top of the line protection against the elements, 
coming with a stabilized environment inside of the armor to allow the wearer to breathe fresh oxygen, 
keep themselves cool in hot environments, and maximize warmth in sub-zero temperatures. A full 
HEV suit offers a computer controlled life support system, with automatic filters for hazardous 
chemicals or gasses, operating with a closed air supply system for five hours, and have inbuilt systems 
for short range (5 Miles) radio communications on a closed network if synced properly. HEV Suits offer 
resistance against various Exposure hazards that the Drifter may face, allowing them the extra 
satisfaction of not dying before the fighting begins. 
Å@Å@Å@HEV Suits have closed helmets to both protect the wearer from physical harm as well as from 
various sources of Exposure - this can be intimidating to some. 

HEV Suit Variants
Heat
Cold
Radiation
Earthblood
SR
Formality
Credit Cost
Under Armor (UA)
3
3
1
0
2
1
x 1.5
Over Armor (OA)
5
5
5
2
3
4
x 1.5

Å@Å@Å@Partial Environment Suits, or PEV Suits are the cheaper and more standardized HEV Suits that 
many have come to appreciate. With lighting insulating and more standard grade materials, PEV Suits 
are considered the ÅgDefaultÅh for a majority of armor - even if it may be getting sold at a higher grade 
While it still offers a 3 Hour Oxygen Supply, without more intensive protections gasses and other 
harmful effects may begin to seep in almost immediately should they be present in the environment. 
Due to their more ubiquitous nature, PEV Suits donÅft raise suspicion anymore than the armor itself, 
even with self-contained armor systems, rather than layers of facial masking, it often contains a light 
see-through layer or simple facial protection that is easily removed.  
Å@Å@Å@
PEV Suit Variants
Heat
Cold
Radiation
Earthblood
SR
Formality
Credit Cost
Under Armor (UA)
1
1
0
0
1
0
x 1
Over Armor (OA)
3
3
2
0
2
0
x 1

Å@Å@Å@Open Environment Suits, or OEV Suits, are seen as the future for wanderers, vagabonds, and 
other homeless people with few credits to their name. Rather than waste money on useless things 
such as basic protection against the elements, costs can be brought down to maximize the protection 
against aggravated assault.
Å@Å@Å@
OEV Suit Variants
Heat
Cold
Radiation
Earthblood
SR
Formality
Credit Cost
Under Armor (UA)
0
0
0
0
0
0
x .5
Over Armor (OA)
0
0
0
0
1
0
x .5

Gear & Services
	When it comes to the markets of the new world, itÅfs inevitable that the multitude of gear, 
supplies, and miscellaneous ÅgStuffÅh that the Drifters pick up over time. During their adventures, the 
Drifter will be able to hit the town and spend their Credits on different kinds of gear and supplies that 
they may need for the journey ahead. Rather than have a comprehensive list of ÅgthingsÅh Errant Earth 
has vague categories of supplies that are split up between its Tech Level and overall function.
	As long as the Drifter has a backpack or other pack on their person, they may have eight Pack 
Items on their person at any time in addition to any of their additional gear. Smaller items may be 
classified as Belt size, meaning they can be fitted around the belt of the Drifter to more easily reach. 
They can support three Belt Items at any point.


Tech Level
Neolithic // ? Cost
Tools are ramshackle and simplistic. 
Breaks upon use.
Medieval // ? Cost
Handmade tools using simplistic 
artisan-focused works.
Industrial // Full Cost
Mass Produced Goods using readily 
available materials.
Pre-Collapse // Double Cost
High Technology from a time before 
the collapse, difficult to manufacture.
Exo // Quadruple Cost
Technology spilled in through the 
Tears or brought to the 


Gear & Supplies
Example
Size
Basic Cost
Apparel
WorkmanÅfs Outfit, Party 
Outfit
Pack
5 - 100
Baubles
Toys, Parts, Indistinct 
Items of Dubious Value
Belt
2 - 2000
Electrical Devices
Bugs, Wrist Computer, 
Recorder, Geiger Counter
Pack or 
Belt
250 - 2500
Hardware, Large
Crowbar, Shovel, Saw,  
Pack
30 - 150
Hardware, Small
Screwdrivers, Carving 
Knife, Wrench
Belt
15 - 50
Medical Supplies
First Aid Kit, SurgeonÅfs Kit
Pack
150 - 500
Survival Supplies
Tent, Bedrolls, Respirator,
Pack
100 - 250
Trade Goods
Bag of Coffee, Opium
Pack
100 - 400
Travel Gear
Binoculars, Entrenching 
Tool
Belt
80 - 260
Travel Rations & Food
Hardtack, Trail Ration, 
Jerky Kit
Belt
15 - 50


The Wayward Notes - A Simple Way to Avoid Little Quibbles
	This is a bit stranger than most item lists, so IÅfll be explaining it the best I can. Instead of 
worrying about every individual item, a Drifter asks if he can find an ÅgEntrenching ToolÅh and hits the 
market. If heÅfs in a Civilized Area, heÅfs working at a Industrial Tech Level - GM agrees and sets the 
price of the Travel Gear to about 120 Credits. 
	This Entrenching Tool is a simple metallic object at the end of the day, price being more for 
value and make. A Medieval Entrenching Tool is simpler to make, more rigid and less flexible than 
an Industrial one. Pre-Collapse Entrenching Tools could fold up to a full shovel or be folded into 
each other to fit in the palm of a hand. An Exo Entrenching Tool can be anything from a 
biomechanical thing that digs through anything bar metal or some kind of off kilter device that 
most agree ÅgDigsÅh but may not be the actual use.
	Do not quibble about details - you have an item, you donÅft have an item. 

?
Utility Items
	Utility Items are considered to be Belt Items, able to be used for an Action by the Drifter to 
assist them in combat or other situations.

Grenade
Description
Credits
Fragmentation
A military fragmentation grenade. Range 0 - 2. Deals 2d10 Explosive Damage to all 
Targets inside of the Space - Save vs Explosives.
100
Shocker
Electrical discharge built to fry Cybernetics. Range 0 - 2 - Deals 3d6 ESP Damage,
75
Smoke Grenade
Standardized White Phosphorus Based Smoke Grenade. Range 0 - 2. Lingers for 10 
Rounds on a Space, provides Light Cover in the Space.
35
Stinger
A pop grenade filled with rubber balls, intended to knock out or disable others. Range 0 
- 2, deals 6d6 SDC Physical Damage. 
75
Stun
A standard stun grenade will disorient and disrupt anyone caught in the blast radius. 
Range 0 - 2 , inflicts the [Stagger] Condition on all Targets inside of the Space.
60
Tear Gas
A lachrymator distribution grenade, consisting of aerosolized solid or liquid to disorient a 
group. Range 0 - 2, lingers for 3 Rounds, all Targets without air filtration have -4 to all 
Actions and -1 Actions.
120

Medico
Description
Credits
D-IX (4 Pack)
A potent military grade pill for going fast or die trying. Add +5 to all Combat Checks, but 
after the battle ends they gain a Scar.
300
Euphoria Bottle
Kill Self.
125
Heroin
A potent pain reliever, restores 1d10 ESP and Endurance.
150
Kosov Flask  
(3 Drinks)
Restore 2d12 Magic Power - Burns the throat and knocks out any Non-Magic User
200
Lazarium Shot
The Drifter injects themselves with liquidized Lazarium solution, rapidly developing cell 
growth in the wounded areas. They recover 3d6 Endurance or Health. 
250
Medical Kit
A standard medkit with necessary medical supplies in it - may use a Medical Skill Check 
with a +25% or make a Field Medicine Check as if their Skill was 50%.
150
Morphine
A Military grade pain reliever, restores 2d10 ESP and Endurance.
250
Pyrholidon
Anti-Radiation Medication, increases Radiation Exposure Resistance by 5, but induces 
psychedelic tendencies and situations if the Drifter fails a ANM Save.
125
White Vial
Cures Poisons or Other Toxins inside of the body. 
100
Yellow Vial
Tastes like lead, contain all the nutrients one needs for an entire day in one easy bottle. 
150

The Wayward Notes - Treasure, Loot, and Other Valuables
	Similar to how ÅgBaublesÅh are of equal value to Credits, whenever the Drifters find a collection 
of ÅgTreasureÅh or other valuable items that donÅft do anything except Ågbe valuableÅh they can be sold 
off at a 1:1 Credit. More exclusive buyers may even purchase it for more (or less) the cost 
established based on their means and desire to have it.

?

Ammunition
Ammo Type
Credits
Description
Ammo Belt
Physical
150
A belt of Loader Kinetic Ammunition, needing to be fed through the 
firearm by hand to make sure it doesnÅft jam.
Arrow, Standard
Physical
15
A quiver of 20 Standard Arrows, they only deal Standard Damage.
Arrow, Xtreme
Physical
50
A quiver of 10 Xtreme Arrows, able to deal Mega Damage.
Bolt, Standard
Physical
30
A quiver of 15 Standard Bolts, they only deal Standard Damage.
Bolt, Xtreme
Physical
80
A quiver of 5 Xtreme Bolts, able to deal Mega Damage.
Box of Shells (20)
Physical
20
A box of conventional shotgun shells, traditionally 12-Guage Buckshot. 
May purchase a box of Slugs to lose the Shotgun Tag but gain +5 
Damage.
Cycler Slug
Energy
150
A Cycler Slug inserted into certain Energy Weapons, produces large 
amounts of energy by itself, but takes two hours to fully recharge. 
Cylinder
Physical
30
A standard 6-Shots for a Revolver in a convenient rapid reloading 
cylinder. Individual bullets may be purchased for 3 Credits and Hand 
Loaded.
E-Clip
Energy
100
An Energy Clip designed to be easily rechargeable, slotted into any 
Energy Firearm to be able to work. Requires 30 Minutes to Recharge.
E-Clip, Extendo
Energy
250
An Energy Clip with a larger storage capacity for increased firepower 
and ammunition. Requires an Hour to Recharge.
Magazine
Physical
25
Standard Kinetic Firearm Ammunition - Ubiquitous in most communities.
Magazine, Box
Physical
100
A Box of Loader Kinetic Ammunition, containing more bullet per bullet than 
thought possible.
Magazine, 
Extended
Physical
75
Extended Kinetic Firearm Ammunition - More Bullet for the Same 
Magazine
Magazine, Light
Physical
50
A Light Heavy Loader Kinetic Firearm, ideal for heavy weapons on the go.





?
Vehicles
	Vehicles cover a wide range of different forms of transport on the Errant Earth. When the world 
went to ruin and the Tears opened up, the large scale vehicle manufacturers were some of the few 
industries that kept struggling - soon replaced by mavericks and garages creating their ideal 
protection against the elements. When describing a Vehicle, itÅfs important to know that Cars, Trucks, 
Aircraft, and even bipedal Vertical Armored Units fall into the same category. Knowing how to engage 
and deal with these threats may keep a Drifter alive longer than most.
	Vehicles come in six sizes dictating their overall size and difficulty to control - Personal, 
Compact, Mid-Size, Large, Rig, and Titanic. Each of these will be assigned a Vehicle Supertype, 
Vehicle Designation, Propulsion System, and Combat Readiness.

Vehicle Size Categories

Personal
Compact
Mid-Size
Large
Rig
Titanic
Mechanical 
Survival Rating
8
6
4
2
0
0
Hull
10
20
30
40
50
60
Durability
20
40
60
80
100
120
Vehicle Pace
5
4
3
2
1
? 
Passengers
(Comfortable / Maximum)
1 / 1
2 / 4
4 / 6
5 / 8
10 / 14
16 / 24
Combat Spaces 
Occupied
Any Number
2 per Space
1 per  Space
1 per  Space
1 per  4-6 
Spaces
1 per  12 to 16 
Spaces
Module Slots
1
2
3
4
5
6
Credit Cost
10,000
30,000
50,000
75,000
100,000
150,000

	The Vehicle Supertype indicates the primary function of the Vehicle, with different Supertypes 
influencing the make and design of the vehicle overall.

Vehicle Supertypes

Combat
Logistics
Transport
Nomadic
Travel
Extreme
MUT 
MSR
+1
+2
-2
+1
0
+1
-1
Hull
+10
0
+5
+10
0
+5
+10
Durability
+20
0
0
+10
+10
+5
+20
Vehicle Pace
0
0
+1
+1
+1
+2
-1
Passengers
(Comfortable / 
Maximum)
0
+1 / +2
+3 / +5
-1 / -1
0
-3 / -6
0
Module Slots
+2
-1
0
+1
0
-1
+2
Credit Cost
200%
150%
100%
150%
100%
200%
175%

	The Vehicle Designation is the overall make and design of the Vehicle, broken down into a few 
categories to highlight their unique characteristics and demands of the Pilot to actually use them. 

Vehicle Designation

Terrestrial
Tank
Aquatic
Aerial
VAC Unit
MSR
0
-4
-2
+4
+1
Hull
0
+10
+10
-25
+15
Durability
0
+20
0
-25
+15
Vehicle Pace
0
-1
-1
+2
-1
Passengers
(Comfortable / Maximum)
0
-2 / -4
+0 / +3
-5 / -5
-8 / -8
Module Slots
0
-1
+1
-1
+1
Credit Cost
-
+50%
+25%
+150%
+125%

	The VehicleÅfs Propulsion System influences a lot about how it was built as well as the necessary 
benefits and problems that come along with purchasing it. It may be the best for the city, but taking it 
out on the great unknown may lead to a crash and untimely demise.

Terrestrial & Tank Propulsion Type

Hull
Durability
Pace
Modules
Credits
Description
Wheels
-
-
-
-
-
The Vehicle is wheeled and enjoys all the amenities of 
road travel.
Treads
+5
+5
-2
-1
+50%
The Vehicle has a set of treads to move it - they treat 
Wayfinding as Path Travel and adds +2d to their 
Ramming Attempt.
Hover
-10
-5
+1
-
+75%
The Vehicle has been rigged with hover tech, allowing 
it to float off the ground. They treat Hazardous 
Terrain as Paths and anyone driving is considered off 
the ground for purposes of hazards.

Aquatic Propulsion Type

Hull
Durability
Pace
Modules
Credits
Description
Engine
+5
-
+1
-2
-
The Vehicle has an engine that needs to be 
maintained to continue movement.
Wind
-5
-10
0
+1
-50%
The Vehicle is entirely moved by the winds. Drifters 
will roll a D6 every day:

1
Bad Winds (No 
Movement)
4-5
Tradewind (+1 Move, +5 
Miles)
2-3
Rightwind (Standard)
6
Favorable Winds (+3 
Pace, +10 Miles)



The Wayward Notes - Credit Cost (or Notepad Fights Math)
To determine the price of a Vehicle take the Base Cost (Size) and multiply it by the various features it is 
composed of. A Compact (30,000) Nomadic (1.5) Hover Tank (.75 + .5) has a total cost of 67,500 Credits (30,000 x 
2.25).
?

Aerial Propulsion Type

Hull
Durability
Pace
Modules
Credits
Description
Jet 
Engine
-10
-5
+3
+1
+50%
Relying on a Jet Engine, the Vehicle will always move 
its maximum Pace at the start of the Combat Round 
in the pilotÅfs chosen angle. If it stops for any reason, it 
will begin to descend and force a Piloting Check (-4/-
20%) to land it successfully except on a runway.
VTOL 
(Vertical Takeoff 
& Landing)
0
0
+1
+1
+25%
The VTOL Aircraft takes off and lands using rotary 
blades or other hover tech, while airborne it can 
descend and land with a Piloting Check. 
Propeller 
Engine
-5
-10
+1
-1
-25%
Using a Propeller to start the engine successfully, the 
Vehicle will always move half its maximum Pace at 
the start of the Combat Round in the PilotÅfs chosen 
angle. If it stops for any reason, it will begin to 
descend and force a Piloting Check (-4/-20%) to land 
it successfully except on a runway.

VAC Propulsion Type

Hull
Durability
Pace
Modules
Credits
Description
Humanoid
0
0
0
0
-
The VAC Unit stands on two legs, almost humanoid in 
appearance.
Spider 
Walker
0
0
-1
+1
+100%
The VAC Unit uses four to eight sophisticated legs to 
move itself, while slower, its stability turns Paths into 
Road Quality.
Hover
-10
-5
+1
-
+75%
The VAC Unit floats ominously off the ground, it treats 
all Hazardous Terrain as Path Terrain.
Chicken 
Walker
-5
-10
+2
-1
-25%
The VAC UnitÅfs Legs are Digitigrade for added 
movement support and reaction, if forcing lighter 
armoring.
Quadrupedal
+15
+15
-2
+1
+150%
The VAC Unit has a set of four powerful legs that 
keeps it upright and stabilized, it adds a +2 to all 
Combat Actions to fire its weapons. 

	The final aspect of a Vehicle is its Combat Readiness or the number of Hardpoints it has 
available to it. The Drifters are able to convert their Modules at a one to two ratio to Hardpoints to 
attach additional weapons or gear.
	Any Weapon attached to a Vehicle has three important notes attached to it. 

Weapon Hardpoints 
are Attached
Each Vehicle Hardpoint is attached somewhere on the Vehicle itself, meaning 
that unless someone is piloting or manning the Hardpoint, it cannot be used, but 
it cannot be disarmed either.
Vehicle Weapons are 
Large & Powerful
Vehicle Weapons use the Default Weapons as their main armaments, but 
increase the number of Damage Die they use by +3d. Due to this increase, they 
also referred to something different .
Vehicle Weapons are 
Expensive
The cost of a Hardpoint Weapon is roughly quadruple the price of the Default 
Weapon itself. Weapons arenÅft cheap.

Module
Effect
Credits
Ablative Armor
When the Drifter takes damage, they may describe Ablative Armor to 
reduce Damage to 0.
500
Ace Combat Simulator
The Drifter adds a +2 to a Combat Check if they are Piloting the Vehicle.
1000
Autoloaders
May reload one Weapon for free every Round.
1500
Bunk House
On a Large, Rig, or Titanic Vehicle - Creates Comfortable Living Space for 
the Pilot and a number of Passengers equal to Comfortable Level.
2500
Combat Data Recorder
Has a Combat Data Recorder installed, a modified Black Box that details 
any combat logs or excursions that the Vehicle had logged.
500
Don Quixote
When making the [Ram] Action, reduce damage taken by -2d.
800
Emergency Guidelights
The Vehicle may be shutdown automatically during an Ejection.
400
EMP Spiker
Use an Action to deal 3d12 EMP Damage to all Targets within the same 
Space. EMP Damage does not affect flesh and blood, but Robots, 
Cyborgs, and Vehicles.
2500
Faked Transponder
Appears on various sensors and Black Box readers as a different vehicle 
entirely.
1250
Fined Tuned Machine
When making a Daredevil Skill Check, they may add +10% to their attempt.
800
Freight Canister
Increase Cargo Capacity by +15. Cargo Capacity is a number of Pack 
Sized Items that the Vehicle may have on it safely.
250
Fuzzy Dice
At the start of the Round, roll 2d6. If results are matching (2,2 / 3,3 / 4,4 etc) 
then add +2 Initiative. If they are not, reduce Initiative by -1. Check em'
15
Gyro Jets
During the Dodge Reaction, add a +3 .
850
Hardlight Shield Generator
Gain a Shield with 30 Block Capacity
1500
Hull Tech
Increase Hull by +5
250
Intelligent Targeting 
Systems
One Weapon may be linked to the ITS - if it has not been used this Round, 
at the end of the Round, the Weapon targets the closest hostile and makes 
an Attack against the Target.
2000
Life Pod
When the Vehicle is destroyed or disabled, it automatically Ejects the Pilots 
and any Passengers.
1500
Luddic Hero
When coming into contact with a Target, destroy Vehicle, deal an 
additional 20d10 Damage to Target after the Ram Damage. 
500
Luddic Knight
When taking or dealing Ram Damage, increase the damage by +2d to 
both sides of the ramming action.
1250
Missile Racks
Gain a Number of Missiles based on Vehicle Size.
Personal
Compact
Mid-Size
Large
Rig
Titanic
1
3
5
7
10
15

1500
Nitro Button
Once per Combat, increase the Pace of the Vehicle by +2
1200
Nomadic Camper
On a Personal, Compact, or Midsize Vehicle - Creatures a comfortable 
Living Space or sleeping area for the Pilot.
1500
Overclocker
Reduce Hull by 1d6 to gain an additional +1 Pace for the remainder of the 
Round.
1500
Pop Shield Generator
When first taking Hull Damage, reduce damage to 0.
800
Power Converter
When taking Energy Damage, the Vehicle only takes half.
2500
Powervent
When taking EMP Damage, the Vehicle only takes half.
3000
Ramhead
When making a Ram Action the Target takes +2d6 Damage.
600
Rangefinder, Ballistic
Increase the Range of all Kinetic Weapons by +2
800
Rangefinder, Laser
Increase the Range of all Energy Weapons by +2
800
Rangefinder, Universal
Increase Range of all Ballistic and Laser Weapons by +2
1500
Ranger Crate
The Pilot increases the number of Pack Items they have available by +4 
and number of Belt Items by +5 while Piloting.
300
Repair Diagnostics
When using the [Emergency Repair] Action, they add a +2d to the amount 
of Durability they are able to recover.
1000
Reserve Battery
If the Vehicle is ever disabled, it may be kickstarted back to life with the 
Reserve Battery - destroys the Reserve Battery.
500
Scrambler System
Has an integrated Scrambler System, all Missiles take a -4 to Hit.
1800
Self-Repairing System
During the Logistics Phase, increase Durability by +1d6
3500
Sensor Booster
Uncovers any Electromagnetic and Heat Signatures in addition to 
enhanced (1+ Mile) Sensor Systems.
1250
Speed Booster
Increase Pace by +1
1500
SPIKEX
At the Start of the Round, the Drifter may use the SPIKEX and move their 
complete Pace. Reduces Hull by -2d6.
750
Tailrider
The Pilot may spend an Action to [Lock-On] to a Target, allowing them to 
know where they are on the field and gain a +2 to Combat Checks against 
them.
1000
Target Computer
Able to set a Lock-On with two Targets
1500
Themed
The Vehicle has been custom designed to appear as something 
impractical or ridiculous - this adds no  bonuses, this is purely aesthetic.
2500
Uptime Ticker
Increase Personal Initiative by +2 while Piloting.
600
Virtual Intelligent Assistant
A helpful VI that wants to help you, comes in many exotic personalities 
including Helpful Mentor, Suave Wingman, Clingy Girlfriend, and Person 
Who Wants to Kill You.
8000
Zero Sight
Firing different weapons at the same target grants a +1 to Combat Checks 
for each subsequent Weapon used once per Round.
1250

Important Notes on Vehicles
	Vehicles on the Errant Earth are often personalized to the Pilot itself, making it difficult to drive 
another person's ride. To represent this, the Drifter will need to make a Pilot Skill Check to either 
intuitively understand it or spend the next minute attempting to figure out how to operate the vehicle 
(-4 to all Actions and -1 Combat Action).
	A Vehicle can be disabled if its Durability reaches 0, representing major damage to stop it 
functioning. It may be forced to keep going, but will have a -4 / -20% to all Actions and -1 Combat 
Action until it's repaired. If its Hull reaches 0, the Vehicle is destroyed and explodes.
	And scarcely talked about, but important note none the less, Vehicles are expensive and 
people rarely wish to part with them except under duress or by taking the keys from their corpse. 
Calculating the cost here is the ÅgAt MarketÅh Cost - expect purchasing a large vehicle to be much more 
difficult and expensive on the Errant Earth. 
?
Enemies of the Errant Earth
	The Drifters will inevitably come into conflict with others, and the field of battle is indiscriminate 
in its rage and fury. Creating an opposing force is not complicated, but depending on the relative 
"Importance" of the enemy, the creation is different.

Extras
Å@Å@Å@Extras are Characters that are present and assisting / hindering the efforts of the Drifters, but 
do not have a name or a unique relationship to the Drifters themselves. Weather than giving them a 
full set of Skills, Attributes, and Abilities, they instead have a series of Concepts which define who they 
are.
Å@Å@Å@Each Extra has one to three Concepts which define their abilities, broad terms that encompass 
many different skills and abilities in a single phrase or idea. These are ranked from 1 (Terrible) to 18 
(Paragon), reflecting how important the Concept is to the Extra as well as their ability to manipulate it. 
If the Extra needs to make an Attribute Check or Save, they will use the most relevant Concept they 
possess. Thus Backwoods Ranger 10 would have an Attribute score of 10 for everything relevant to 
that Concept. If an Extra needs to perform a Skill Check, they will take their Concept and multiply it by 
5, reflecting their innate abilities in that category. Using the Backwoods Ranger above, they would 
have a 50% to succeed at any Skill Check that would require the use of that Concept.
Å@Å@Å@If an Extra does not have a Concept that is relevant, they will have to Default to their Base 
Competency. Base Competency is taking one of their Concepts and applying a -5 modifier to it. They 
may use the best Concept if it is vaguely relevant to the Extra, if it is completely outside of the realm of 
the Extra, they apply it to their lowest Concept.
Å@Å@Å@From there the Extra is assigned Combat Training, Weapons, Armor, and anything else relevant 
for their role. 

Example
Renegade Scientist
Coalition Pilot
Exo Miner
Mercenary Charlatan
Scientist 12  
Smuggler 7
Pilot 11 
Coalition Soldier 10
Exo 8
Mining 12
Smooth Talker 15
Gunslinger 8

Å@Å@Å@Whenever an Extra is under threat their Health is equal to their largest Concept. Should they 
lose all of their Health, they will either die instantly or be incapacitated. If the Extra is considered an 
MD Creature, they will instead multiply their highest Concept by 3, 5, 7, or 10 to determine how much 
MD they possess. The value is based on the relative danger, size, and effectiveness of the Extra. 
Extras may have benefits based on an Exo Type, Robot Chassis, or other benefits that come from 
these types of backgrounds, but will not benefit from any other aspects. 
?
Advanced Characters
	Advanced Characters are important aspects of Errant Earth that play a part in the story and 
the DrifterÅfs personal struggles. Advanced Characters have Attributes and Skills similar to the Drifters, 
but have a ÅgCurated ListÅh that signify major notes or unique skills they may possess. In addition to 
possessing three to five Concepts, they are able to have a set of Skills that signify their abilities or 
nature. 
	Advanced Characters also adopt one to two Backgrounds or Occupations to signify their 
abilities, their total CL being equal to their highest Concept, minus five, to represent their skills. Any 
benefits gained from these Backgrounds and Occupations may be applied as well, but certain 
restrictions may apply or depend on the Advanced Character is made. 

Example Side Character
Dr. Amelia Foster, Biologist (CL 4) - Academic 4, Scientist 4
ANM 10, BRV 14, COM 18, FIN 9, HRD 6, POW 11, SPD 10, WIL 12
Moral Doctor 6, Ecological Obsession 7, and Face of Project Hope 9
Åú	Deception (15%)
Åú	Formal Science: Medical (80%)
Åú	Investigation (75%)
Åú	Language: Federal and Algonquin (98%)
Åú	Literacy: American and Algonquin (98%)
Åú	Natural Science: Biology (80%)
Åú	Surgery (80%)
Åú	Veterinary (98%)
Åú	Wardrobe (75%)


Complete Characters
	Complete Characters are made similarly to the Drifters, selecting Backgrounds and 
Occupations, possessing Attributes, and enjoying the benefits and problems that come from it. 
However, Complete Characters gain additional Karma if they are part of an Opposing Force equal to 
[Number of Drifters x 2] that is added onto their total Karma to purchase additional skills and abilities.
	If the GM wishes, they may assign a set of Concepts to a Complete Character as well, further 
developing their abilities with a broad set of skills in addition to the specifics. Their Attributes and Skills 
would still take priority in this case. 
?
Advancement
	Throughout their adventures across the Errant Earth, the Drifters will be improving themselves 
and their abilities with their trials of fire. When taking into account the life expectancy of the Drifters 
and the lofty goals that they often try to achieve, itÅfs no secret that ÅgHigh LevelÅh Drifters are rare and 
often some of the best around. As the Drifter increases their Character Level, they are also increasing 
the fame that comes with the territory - soon people begin recognizing their work, signature abilities, 
and seeking their assistance with greater and grander projects and adventures.
Å@Å@Å@There are three ways for a Drifter to increase their Character Level, which in turn will increase 
the Rank of all of their currently acquired Backgrounds and Occupations.

Milestones
Å@Å@Å@Under the Milestone System, the Drifters will need to accomplish goals and succeed at plans to 
progress and improve themselves. This method works best with a narrative throughline, such as the 
Drifters being contractors, working for a mercenary company, or focused around a particular set of 
story beats that the GM has set forward. Every time these milestones are reached, the Drifter will 
increase their CL and rise in power. These distinct moments are high stress and dangerous, whether 
resolving a family crisis, undergoing emotional revelations, or simply completing a job to a (relatively) 
satisfactory conclusion.
Å@Å@Å@If the GM allows it, individual Drifters may hit Independent Milestones that pertain to their 
individual storyline or personal hang-ups, the GM is encouraged to never allow a Drifter to deviate 
more than one or two CL from others to maintain the balance and not overshadow the 
accomplishments of the entire team (whoever is taking credit for their deeds is an entirely different 
matter). 	

The Wayward Notes - Replacing the Dead
	ItÅfs tragic, itÅfs terrible, and it may be inevitable. When a Drifter 
dies they will be replaced by another Drifter soon after, joining up 
with the crew out of their own needs or ideals. As the Drifters grow in 
power, the fewer people are actually able to fill the shoes of their 
more competent allies. To represent this, consult the Chart.
	No matter what, after CL 13 all Drifters will end up being CL 12. 
Being Heroes of Humanity are large shoes to fit, and few rise up to 
the challenge.


Average Drifter CL
ReplacementÅfs CL
1 - 4
Average CL 
5 - 8
Average CL - 1
9 - 12
Average CL - 2
13+
12 CL


?
Numerical System
	The Numerical System requires each Drifter to acquire Experience Points (EXP) from their 
accomplishments and abilities. Each CL requires [1,000 x Level] Experience to reach. These points do 
not roll over from Level to Level, therefore reaching Level 2 is 2,000 EXP, Level 3 is 3,000 EXP. So from 
Level 1 to 3, the total would be a total of 5,000 EXP (2,000 + 3,000). 

Being Part of the 
Episode
Simplistic Objective
Complex Objective
Open Combat
Competent and 
Interesting Plans
Highlighting the 
Weird & Wonderful
100 EXP
50 EXP
100 EXP
25 - 500 EXP
25 - 500 EXP
250 XP
The Drifter participated 
in the Session
Objectives with One to 
Two Steps to Do
Multi-Step Objectives 
and Goals
 Battles against Foes & 
Enemies
Creating, Following, and 
Executing a Plan
Discovering & Indulging 
in the Strange

	Being Part of the Episode and its consequences will always reward the Drifter, those who miss 
Episodes or are unable to attend may make up the EXP elsewhere or through their own 
accomplishments. Simplistic and Complex Objectives are based on the objectives and goals that each 
of these require. ÅgDestroying a TargetÅh is fairly simple, while ÅgDestroying a Target Facility While Saving 
the HostagesÅh is a bit more Complex.	
	Combat Operations indicate that the Drifters experienced a genuine threat, with more EXP 
being awarded for more difficult encounters with dangerous enemies. Competent Plans indicate that 
the Drifters thought out ideas or plans that required foresight and concentration with their Skills and 
history at the forefront (even if those plans fail or are unable to be completed). Finally, Highlighting the 
Weird & Wonderful aspects of the Errant Earth means that the Drifter is using their strange powers, 
skills, or abilities in addition to engaging with the bizarre and mystical in their own unique way. 
	The Numerical System is slower and rewards active participation in the activities going on, 
playing it ÅgSafeÅh will often result in less but more reliable EXP, while being more proactive and 
dangerous will reward more. ItÅfs the DrifterÅfs choice to engage in that kind of chicanery. Additional EXP 
may be rewarded by the GM upon accomplishing objectives in unique ways, succeeding at personal 
objectives and desires, or simply pawning off their treasures and blowing their Credits on a night on 
the town. Experience Points are just as much a measure of experience as well as the willingness to 
experience. 

Deeds
	A hybridized system of the two - Deeds are direct actions that leave a lasting impact on the 
world and the Drifters themselves. Accomplishing missions, tying up loose ends, or reaching homebase 
after a harrowing journey all contribute toward Deeds. Every CL requires a number of Deeds to be 
accomplished equal to the potential CL - thus CL 4 would require four additional Deeds that reset 
upon levelling. Thus CL 1 to CL 4 would require nine Deeds (2 + 3 + 4). The difficulty and scale of the 
Deeds increase as the Drifter builds their fame and fortune, at CL 1 a Deed may be simply surviving a 
journey, while at CL 8 it may demand that the Drifter reaches a farthest point on the map, plunder its 
goods, and make it out alive. 
	Independent Deeds are possible, often requiring the Drifter to undergo their own personal arc 
or perform their own (mis)deeds over their peers. 
Karma Benefits
	Upon reaching a new CL, the Drifter will acquire a set of Karma equal to their current amount of 
Karma of their Backgrounds and Occupations. Similar to when they were first being created, Karma 
may be spent to improve the Drifter in addition to their natural development. Karma may be held onto 
between Character Levels, allowing low Karma Drifters to acquire more expensive benefits and perks 
over a longer period of time.
	Should the Drifter ever have ÅgNegative KarmaÅh they will instead be reset to 0 Karma .

Karma Perk
Karma Cost
Description
Add +1d10 ESP
4
The Drifter develops their ESP further, increasing it by +1d10. Requires 
Awakened Psychic Powers.
Add +1d10 MP
4
The Drifter develops their MP further, increasing it by +1d10. Requires 
Awakened Magic Powers.
Add +1d4 Health
3
The Drifter increases their Health by +1d4.
Add +1d6 Endurance
2
The Drifter increases their Endurance by an additional +1d6.
ATB Booster
4
Increase an Attribute by +1 up to a maximum of 18.
ATB Enhancer
6
Increase an Attribute by +1 up to a maximum of 24.
Awaken Magical 
Potential
7
The Drifter automatically awakens their Magical Potential if they are able.
Awaken Psychic 
Potential
7
The Drifter automatically awakens their Psychic Potential if they are able.
Combat Speciality
3
The Drifter adopts a Combat Specialty of their choice.
Companion
6
The Drifter creates a Companion with a Concept at 10.
Cybernetic Intake
3 / Cybernetic 
Stress
The Drifter increases their Cybernetic Stress, allowing them to take on more 
intensive and invasive Cybernetics.
Increase Rank
5
The Drifter increases the Rank of a Background or Occupation.
New Core Skill
5
The Drifter adds a new Core Skill.
New Hobby Skill
2
The Drifter adds a new Hobby Skill.
New Trained Skill
3
The Drifter adds a new Trained Skill.
Weapon Proficiency
4
The Drifter adds a new Weapon Proficiency of their choice.
Standard Combat Skill
6
The Drifter increases their Combat Skill by one step up to Military Combat 
Training
Advanced Combat Skill
12
The Drifter increases their Combat Skill by one step up to Elite Combat 
Training
Remove Scar
5
The Drifter removes a Scar they may have acquired, the damage may still be 
done, but theyÅfre still kicking.
	
Å@Å@Å@Drifters accomplishing strange, esoteric, or outright bizarre goals or at the whims of the GM, 
may be awarded additional Karma to spend whenever they increase their CL. Karma may only be 
spent when a Drifter improves their CL, making it all the more encouraging to either save up, spend 
fast, or work toward reaching that next goal. 
?
Legacy Occupations
Å@Å@Å@The potential for heroism and displaying nearly superhuman skills are simple on the Errant 
Earth, but few are able to rise to the occasion and find themselves taking on a Legacy Occupation. A 
Legacy Occupation have a CL requirement and often strict demands that the Drifter will need to 
succeed at. If they manage to accomplish all of these feats and earn the right - they may transfer into 
a Legacy Occupation as if it were any other kind of Occupation.
Å@Å@Å@Once the Drifter is locked into a Legacy Occupation, they are unable to leave that Occupation - 
they have cemented themselves in the world as what they are, for better or for worse.
Å@Å@Å@	
Comet Chaser (DoctorDRM) - Use and Abuse the Legendary Comet Chaser 
Mech Suit
Fabled Magician (Magic) - Walk the Path of the Final Magic
Inland Prince (Psychic) - Master the Inland Empire, Master Destiny
Leader - Leading and Guiding a Band of Others, effectively a never ending 
supply of chaff
Legend - Increase Stats and Skills Faster, YouÅfre a Legend
Tear Navigator - Understand and Manipulate Tears
Tear Navigator - Understand and Manipulate Tears
Legend - Increase Stats and Skills Faster, YouÅfre a Legend
Leader - Leading and Guiding a Band of Others, effectively a never ending 
supply of chaff
Inland Prince (Psychic) - Master the Inland Empire, Master Destiny
Fabled Magician (Magic) - Walk the Path of the Final Magic
Comet Chaser (DoctorDRM) - Use and Abuse the Legendary Comet Chaser 
Mech Suit



Species List


Species Creation System
	If the Drifter is an Exo or a Mutant, they will be relying on the Species Creation System to 
determine the new body parts, appendages, and abilities they have. This is primarily determined via 
calculating the Species Rating when creating the Exo in question or developing the MutantÅfs 
properties. The higher the Species Rating is, the harder it is for the Drifter to Transfer out as well as 
reduce the total Karma the Species has. 

Species Rating Chart
Species Rating 
Points Used
Less Than 0
1 - 10
11 - 20
21 - 30
31 - 40
41 - 50
51+
Transfer 
(How Long are you 
ÅgStuckÅh in this Race)
1
2
4
6
8
10
NPC
Karma
5
3
1
-1
-3
-5
NPC

Base Attribute Choices - Species Attribute Rating
Attribute Die
-
D4
D6
D8
D10
D12
Species Rating
-2
-1
0
1
3
5

Impaired
Below Average
Average Adult
Above Average
Olympian
Heroic

Skill Choices 
(Do You Have Skills YouÅfre Qualified In?)

Learning Rate 
(How able are you when learning?)
Skill Type
Hobby
Trained
Core

Every 7 Ranks
0
Primary
1
3
5

Every 5 Ranks
2
Learned
0
1
3

Every 3 Ranks
4

	The Human Deviation Index builds up gradually as the Exo / MutantÅfs abilities begin to show 
themselves off more. The higher the Index the more difficult it is for them to relate to human beings. It 
also may grant a Horror Factor, making others not accustomed to them perturbed or outright terrified 
to deal with them. Finally, the HDI informs how many of the Exos or similar Mutants are currently 
available in the immediate areas. The more freakish, the fewer remain, for good or ill reasons.

Human Deviation Index
Human 
Deviation
0 - 10
11 - 20
21 - 30
31 - 40
41 - 50
51+
Demeanor
0
-1
-3
-5
-10
Nightmare
Horror Factor
-
-
0
-3
-6
-10
Community Size 
(How many are you?)
Ubiquitous
Large 
(50,000 ~)
Enclaves 
(15,000 ~)
Village
(2,500 ~)
Homestead 
(100 ~)
Solitary 
(10~)
?

Base Exo 
Species
Attribute Changes
Effect
Human 
Deviation
Species 
Rating
Arthropod
+1 ANM, +2 WIL
Exoskeleton - The Drifter has a natural 6 Armor Rating (AR). 
4
3
Astral
+2 ANM, +2 COM, +2 
WIL, -2 POW, -2 HRD
Bioenergy Receptacle - The Drifter is an energy being, 
materializing in this world for a time. You may become 
intangible once per day for [HRD x 2 Seconds]
5
3
Avians
+1 FIN, +1 POW, +1 SPD
Glide - The Drifter may move one Space as long as they are 
falling and if they maintain it with a FIN Check, they may land 
safely.
2
1
Fungoids
+2 POW, +2 HRD, -2 
COM, -2 ANM
One Body, Many Minds - Every 3 Ranks, add +10% to one Skill 
of Choice.
4
3
Humanoids
-
-
0
0
Lithoids
+3 HRD, +1 WIL
Armored Body - The Drifter is considered a Mega Damage 
Creature.
3
5
Mammalian
+1 to Any
Adaption - The Drifter has adapted to the natural 
environment around them, they are Augmented in one 
Attribute.
1
1
Mechanical
-
Intelligent Design - Consult the Robot Creation System by 
converting Robot Chassis to Species Rating.
Note
Note
Molluscoid
+1 FIN, +1 POW
Tentacles - The DrifterÅfs arms are lined with suckers and other 
substances to strengthen their grip. They have a Lift / Carry of 
two steps greater than their current POW.
4
2
Plantoids
+1 ANM, +2 BRV, +1 
WIL
Photosynthesis - The Drifter is always considered in a Medical 
Setting if they are in sunlight.
3
5
Reptar
+1 ANM, +1 HRD, +1 
POW, +1 WIL
Slowed Metabolic Function - The Drifter has a +2 to their 
Anima and Willpower Saves. They just donÅft register it.
2
3
Tauric
+1 POW, +2 SPD, +1 
HRD, -2 FIN
Tauric Body - The Drifter adds +2 Pace, but all Armor is 200% 
more expensive..
1
3
Homunculi 
(By Sex Pistols)
+1 to All
Unbroken - The Drifter is considered an MD Entity..
3
5

Silly Exo 
Species
Attribute Changes
Effect
Human 
Deviation
Species 
Rating
Toon
+2 ANM -2 HRD
Two-Dimensional  - The Drifter is effectively a Åg2DÅh Entity to 
everyoneÅfs perspective. They may go ÅgFlatÅh for [HRD] Seconds.
2
4
Muppet
+1 BRV, -1 COM
Kermitted to the Bit - The Drifter is a Muppet, a puppet like 
entity that walks and talks through haphazard jiggling. 
Everyone seems to accept this as natural.
3
1
Geometric
+3 to HRD, +3 POW
Deviation Principle  - The Drifiter is a series of geometric 
shapes haphazardly fitted together. They are considered to 
have Supernatural HRD and POW. - FIN, SPD, and BRV can 
never exceed 8.
7
5
?
Å@Å@Å@The Exo and Mutant Deviation is how far away from the ÅgHuman StandardÅh the Exo or Mutant 
actually is. With ExoÅfs coming from all walks of life, a few are inevitably going to look human enough to 
blend in to society, while some Mutants are little more than a freakish collection of limbs stapled 
together that claims to be human.
Å@Å@Å@This Deviation Principle also grants both Exos and Mutants a number of Expressions - 
Expressions are non-mechanical aspects that further differentiate the Drifter from the human 
average. Expressions represent the little changes, such as unique hair colors or odd skin complexion. 
These may also represent quirky abilities that donÅft do much of use, but may indicate flavorful or useful 
aspects that the Drifter needs to survive in the world - such as Vestigial Wings, Complex Feeding 
Apparatus, or growing fruit from their plantoid body. 
Å@Å@Å@
Exo Deviation

Demihuman
Faeish
Foreign
Alien
Freakish
Human Deviation
-6
-3
0
3
6
Species Rating
2
1
0
1
2
Expressions
0
1
2
4
6

Mutation Deviation

Pseudohuman
Deviant
Tainted
Hybrid
Pure
Human Deviation
-4
-2
0
3
5
Species Rating
3
1
0
-2
-6
Expressions
0
1
2
4
6

Mutant Bloodline
Description
Human 
Deviation
Expressions
Species 
Rating
Blessed Blood
The Drifter has blessed blood, meaning their mutations are 
expressed to unnatural degrees.
4
+2
2
Recently Turned
The DrifterÅfs body has only recently mutated - skin, bone, and sinew 
have haphazardly been sewn together. 
2
+1
0
Stabalizine
The DrifterÅfs mutagenic strain has somewhat stabilized, they may 
still mutate further, but not any differently.
0
0
0
Hybrid
The DrifterÅfs parents were mutants, resulting in an even more 
elaborate offspring.
5
+1
-5
Earthblooded
The Drifter mutated under the strain of an Earthblood Geyser or 
Wound. They gain +3d10 MP or ESP.
4
+1
4
Nuclear
The Drifter mutated under the warm glow of the atom, they have -2 
Demeanor with all Mutants.
2
0
-5


?

Size Traits
Description
Human 
Deviation
Species 
Rating
Tiny
The Drifter is incredibly small, standing in about 1.5 to 3 Feet (45 to 91 cm), while this is 
a benefit at some points, at others it's a major determinant.
3
2
Small
The Drifter is naturally shorter than most, standing about 3 to 4 Feet (91 to 122 cm). 
While shorter, they do possess a "small" advantage.
1
1
Average
The Drifter is fairly average in height ranging roughly from 5 to 7 feet (152 to 213 cm). 
This has no notable advantages or disadvantages.
0
0
Big
The Drifter is larger than normal, standing around 8 to 10 Feet (243 to 304 cm). While 
taller and tougher, they do struggle in some areas.
1
1
Huge
The Drifter is massive compared to others, standing at around 11 to 13 Feet (335 to 
396 cm). Able to easily take a hit due to their size, they come at the cost of being 
unable to go through most doors.
3
2

Traits
Description
Effect
Human 
Deviation
Species 
Rating
Acidic Blood
The Drifter's blood has developed into an acidic 
compound dangerous to most life..
The Drifter, when attacked in melee and taking 
Endurance or Health, immediately deals 2d6 Mega 
Damage to the Attacker.
2
4
Adrenaline Surge
The Drifter has specialized chemicals in their body 
allowing them to snap into action.
The Drifter has +1 Auto-Dodge or Auto-Parry.
0
5
Albino
The Drifter is Albino, with naturally thin skin 
susceptible to burning and deathly white.
The Drifter has a -3 / -15% to all Actions when 
standing in the sunlight without protection.
3
-3
Amorphous
The Drifter is almost entirely Amorphous, able to 
twist and curl itself to needed forms.
If the Drifter is not wearing conventional armor, they 
have the ability to shrink or enlarge themselves by 
one size and contort themselves as needed in the 
situation. Taking a second rank allows them to shrink 
or enlarge two sizes of their choice.
6
4
Appendages
The Drifter has a number of Appendages that can 
double as either singular arms, legs, or anything 
else really.
The Drifter has a singular appendage (or small set of 
appendages) that allow the manipulation as though 
they are arms or legs.
2
2
Aquatic
The Drifter has naturally adapted to life in the Sea 
and on the Coast.
The Drifter can move completely unhindered in 
water and can breathe in water similar to their own 
(Salty or Fresh). However, they require an Apparatus 
to Breathe on Land.
5
2
Ascension 
Mutation
After trial and hardship, the Species eventually 
evolves into their final, true, form.
At Rank 5 of the Species, they gain 10 Species Rating 
Points to distribute as they see fit. May take multiple 
times for increased Multiples of 5.
6
6
Attribute Potential
The Drifter, while not universally adept at all 
attributes, find themselves with inclinations during 
their lives.
The Drifter increases an Attribute Potential to 
Augmented - may be taken multiple times.
1
2
Automated 
Defensive 
Systems
The Drifter has developed a method to react 
automatically to threats should they come under 
duress.
The Drifter gains +4 NSR at the start of Combat.
3
5
Battlefield Rations
The Drifter has developed a grizzly habit of 
consuming their enemies mid-battle to activate 
regenerative proteins.
The Drifter may spend an Action during combat to 
begin consuming a fallen enemy, healing their 
Endurance by 1d10+HRD.
7
2
Berserker
The Drifter can easily be thrown into a Berserk 
Rage at the drop of a hat.
The Drifter gains +2 to Combat Checks in Melee, but 
has -2 NSR.
2
3
Biopouch
The Species has a number of pouches in their body 
to store . . . things.
The Drifter has a set of biopouches on their body, 
allowing them to store hand sized items in them.
3
1
Blind
The DrifterÅfs Species is fundamentally blind and is 
unable to see without assistance or vibrations.
The Species is unable to perceive things visually.
2
-4
Blind Sight
The Species has adapted to use their senses to fine 
point, making their eyes nearly redundant.
The Drifter takes no penalties in regards to their 
sight or lack thereof.
4
7
Brachiation 
Adapted Limbs
The Species has evolved to primarily use their 
arms for swinging and movement.
The Species gains a +2 / +10% to all Climbing Checks 
and can move freely between bars and vines.
3
4
Carnivore
The Species can only consume meat based 
products from livestock or other "less willing" 
livestock.
The Species gains an appetite for meat or meat 
substitutes, requiring heavy proteins to survive. May 
only select one Dietary Type.
0
0
Cellular Division 
Failure
The Species's cells, while complex, regrow 
extremely slow. While this does slow down aging, it 
also slows down regenerative processes.
The Species heals at half the rate for both 
Endurance and Health.
3
-4
Cold Blooded
The Species is Cold Blooded, meaning that they 
enjoy warmer climates as their body dislikes 
adapting to different temperatures.
The Species suffers a -4 / -20% to all Checks when 
in Cold Climates without proper insulation.
4
-4
Combat Mode
The Species has an adapted ÅgCombat ModeÅh 
which they may enter into.
The Drifter uses an Action to switch to a Combat 
Mode: Gain [Specific] Combat Specialization
5
6
Cursed 
(By Cole)
The Species has a horribly unlucky reality of being 
susceptible to Psychic and Magic attacks.
The Drifter has a -4 to Magic and Psychic 
Resistance. Radiates a faint ÅgfakeÅh Glimmer to 
others.
-8
-10
Danger Senses
The Species has developed an acute automatic 
reaction to dangers.
The Species, once per combat, gains +6 NSR. Can 
be used reactively.
0
4
Darkvision
The Species can see in the dark.
The Species negates any penalties to seeing things 
in the dark or navigating during the night.
1
2
Deaf
The Species never needed the ability to hear.
The Species is unable to hear anything, no 
technology can rectify this.
2
-4
Doubtful Intent
The Species questions and meanders on most 
things, lowering their reaction times.
The Species has a -2 to their Personal Initiative
0
-4
Elasticity
The Species may augment their body to stretch 
over long distances.
The Drifter may extend their arms or legs by three 
times their normal length - for a HRD Check, they 
may extend them up to ten times their length.
4
5
Elemental 
Immunity
The Species is immune to a certain kind of Element.
The Drifter is unaffected by one Core Element 
(Aeroes, Cryos, Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, or 
Steama) or two False Elements (Hex, Lux, Cerebral, 
Death, Sonic, Darkness).
4
4
Elemental 
Resistance
The Species is resistant to a certain kind of 
Element.
The Drifter is naturally resistant and takes half 
damage from one Core Element (Aeroes, Cryos, 
Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, or Steama) or two 
False Elements (Hex, Lux, Cerebral, Death, Sonic, 
Darkness).
3
2
Elemental 
Weakness
The Species is especially vulnerable to natural 
phenomena.
The Drifter is susceptible to one Core Element 
(Aeroes, Cryos, Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, or 
Steama) or two False Elements (Hex, Lux, Cerebral, 
Death, Sonic, Darkness). Taking double damage.
4
-2
Enduring
The Species is tough, able to ignore some pain 
outside their size.
The Species gains +3d10 Endurance
2
4
Erudite
The Species has unlocked most parts of its internal 
brain chemistry, allowing it full access to its brain 
power. This has, however, weakened them 
physically.
The Species has half of their base Blood and 
Endurance, but Aces two Skills of their choice.
3
1
Failed Uplift
The Species was the result of an Uplifting event 
gone horribly wrong, retaining part of their Primal 
instincts.
The Species has -10% to all of their Scientific and 
Technical Skills, but gains a +10% to all Wilderness 
Skills.
5
1
Fortress Built
The Species is so large and bulky it provides 
natural cover simply being next to them.
If the Species is Big or Huge, all allies in the same 
Space are considered to be in Light Cover. The 
Species is not affected by Light Cover though.
6
3
Fragile
The Species complex biology makes it almost 
imperative that everything works as intended, 
leaving even the lightest wounds potentially 
dangerous.
The Species has half of their total Blood and 
Endurance.
2
-5
Herbivore
The Species naturally only consumes plant material 
and cannot consume meat.
The Species gains an appetite for vegetables or 
other plant based proteins. . May only select one 
Dietary Type.
0
0
Hideous
The Species is a hideous abomination and 
terrifying to look upon.
The Species reduces their Demeanor by two Steps 
for everyone except among their own people or 
they have some kind of coverings.
6
-2
Hyper-Specific 
Food 
Consumption
The Species has developed in a location with a 
specific kind of food that has become a staple diet. 
Their only diet.
The Species cannot eat regular food, but only their 
specific food and variations of that food to survive. 
May only select one Dietary Type.
5
-4
Infrared Sight
The Species has a visual receptor that can see in 
the infrared spectrum and detect heat signatures.
The Species sess in the Infrared Spectrum, allowing 
them to see heat signatures and other things.
3
2
Inland 
Psychopomp
(By Cole)
The SpeciesÅfs mind is an open book to many, their 
thoughts and nature spilling out whether they 
intend to or not.
The Drifter has a -2 to their Psychic Resistance. 
-4
-4
Kindchenschema
The Species is naturally considered "Cute" and 
others tend to fawn over them. For better or for 
worse.
The Species increases their Demeanor by two Steps 
for everyone except their own people.
-1
3
Lead Feet
The Species is inherently poor at balance or 
moving specifically..
The Species has -1 to their NSR.
0
-1
Leaping Ability
The Species leg muscles have developed for long 
leaps through the air.
The Drifter triples their Vertical and Horizontal Jump. 
They also may have basic air control (adjusting 
direction, controlled descent, etc) for FIN Check.
3
2
Lethargic
The Species is fairly lethargic when it comes to 
their personal development, allowing certain Skills 
to fall by the wayside during their lives.
The Drifter reduces the Development of all Skills by 
-2%
0
-5
Levitation
The Species has developed flight without external 
influence.
The Drifter may move equal to their Pace while 
flying. May double their Pace if they succeed at a 
COM Check.
6
8
Limited 
Regeneration
The Species has limited regenerative abilities, 
recovering naturally from wounds quickly.
The Species heals 5 Endurance or 1 Health every 
Hour.
5
7
Long Life
The Species is unnaturally long lived compared to 
humans, a blessing, or a curse?
The Drifter has an unnaturally long life span, they 
add an extra 2d6 * 1000 Years to their base lifespan. 
2
0
Long Wings
The Species possesses a pair of powerfully built 
wings.
If the Species is Average or Below size, the Species 
gains a rudimentary ability to fly (half Pace).
6
4
Low Light Vision
The Species possesses the ability to see in low-light 
conditions.
The Species negates any penalties to seeing in low-
light (such as dusk or twilight) conditions or 
navigating during these times.
0
1
Magi Shield
THe Species has an uncanny or supernatural ability 
to resist Magical Powers.
The Drifter has +5 to their Resist Magic Checks.
0
10
Mayfly Life
The Species is unnaturally short lived, burning out 
just as theyÅfre getting started. 
The Drifter has a short life, their lifespan is 2d6 + 15 
Years long.
2
-1
Mega Damage 
Capable
The Species is so tough, they can take MEGA 
DAMAGE!
The DrifterÅfs Endurance and Health is considered to 
be Mega Damage Capable.
3
10
Mercantile 
Desires
The Species is a natural mercantile one, always 
struggling to find the best deal or haggle for the 
"secret prices"
The Species gains +4 / +20% when engaging in 
mercantile or haggling for business or goods.
0
2
Mineralivore
The Species exclusively consumes minerals, stones, 
and other earth based minerals instead of 
traditional food.
The Species consumes exclusively minerals or other 
geodes to survive. May only select one Dietary Type.
4
0
Multiple Eyes
The Species possesses a second set of eyes.
The Species gains a +2 / +10%  to all Sight Based 
Checks and may be augmented with different sight 
modifiers for each set of eyes..
3
2
Natural Armor
The Species is naturally resilient to damage thanks 
to inbuilt armor due to skin or conditioning.
The Species begins at an Armor Rating of 5, but 
each subsequent time this is taken, increases it by +1. 
Counts as Inner Armor with [HRD x 4] Durability.,
4
5
Natural Magician
The Species has evolved to become natural 
Magicians since birth.
The Species begins with Awakened Magic Powers.
0
7
Natural Melee 
Weapons
The Species has an inbuilt natural weapon, 
allowing them to defend themselves from harm
The Species begins with a Default Standard Melee 
Weapon of their choice that cannot be disarmed. 
May be purchased again for different weapons.
6
5
Natural Poison 
Production
The Species has developed a naturally poisonous 
substance, able to spit it out at enemies or coat it 
on their tools.
The Species is able to, once every 12 hours, produce 
a Poisoned Glob which deals 1d6 Mega Hex 
Damage a susceptible enemy for an Action or be 
coated on a weapon.
4
4
Natural Psychics
The Species has evolved to become natural 
Psychics since birth.
The Species begins with Awakened Psychic Powers.
0
7
Naturally Adept
The Species has attuned particularly well with an 
Attribute.
The Species increases one of their Attributes to be a 
Supernatural Attribute.
2
6
Naturally Inept
The Species has failed to attune well with a 
particular Attribute.
The Species caps one of their Attributes to 8, it 
cannot increase beyond this limit.
2
-4
Nimble
The Species is inherently dexterous and light on 
their feet, allowing for great displays of agility.
The Species begins with +1 Auto-Dodge.
1
3
Null Type Blood
The DrifterÅfs Species Blood Type is not technically 
possible to recreate.
The Drifter only recovers 1 Endurance or Health 
when they are recovering - regardless of setting.
6
-3
Odd Coloration
The Species as a strange coloration to them, truly, 
a little green man.
The Drifter has a unique skin tone or color that 
differentiates them.
2
0
Omnivore
The Species consumes both meat and plant 
material.
The Drifter eats both meat and plant based 
materials. May only select one dietary type.
0
0
Pitiless
The Species is an uncaring, unfeeling, battle-
hardened people who are often unnerving to be 
around and downright terrifying to their enemies.
The Drifter reduces their Demeanor to 0. 
7
-5
Polyglots
The Species is filled with natural Polyglots, able to 
speak most every language they hear with ease.
The Species can speak all known languages and 
can translate easily. A (COM - 2) Attribute Check or 
a Social Sciences Skill Check can be called to learn 
new languages should they be encountered.
1
6
Proles
The Species is servile by nature, never fully fit for 
more "Advanced" jobs in any world.
When the Drifter takes a Trade, it is immediately 
assigned a Skill Tag. All Science Skills are considered 
to have -3% less Development.
3
1
Psychic Shield
THe Species has an uncanny or supernatural ability 
to resist Psychic Powers.
The Drifter has +5 to their Resist Psychic Checks.
0
10
Quick Reactions
The Species has jittery, quick, reactions toward 
most things.
The Drifter adds an additional +3 Personal Initiative.
0
4
Rampant 
Xenophobia 
(By Cole)
The Species has a near biological compulsion to 
look down on others in complete contempt.
The Drifter has -4 to their Demeanor to any Species 
that is not their own. They radiate racism.
12
-6
Rapid Probability 
Simulation
The Species has developed or trained their minds 
to quickly understand chances and probabilities, 
finding optimal outcomes.
The Drifter may reroll any Check they make once a 
Session, relying on the rapid calculation to adjust 
themselves.
3
5
Redundant 
Organs
The Species has developed a set of redundant 
organs, allowing their body to compensate for 
normally lethal injuries.
The Drifter doubles their starting Health.
4
6
Regenerative
The Species has a natural regenerative ability, 
allowing them to quickly patch wounds up.
The Species is always considered in a Medical 
Facility, and if present in one, doubles its effects.
6
10
Scar 
Regeneration
(By Cole)
The Species regenerative capabilities allow them 
to regrow limbs, organs, or other extremities.
The DrifterÅfs body will recover 1 Scar after 3 Days of 
Medical Treatment or Rest or two weeks of little to 
no Medical Treatment. Limbs will regrow at this 
point.
12
16
Scavengers
The Species is a natural set of scavengers and 
finders, allowing them to discover gold in trash.
The Species gains a +4 / +20% when trying to 
scavenge locations or attempting to discover 
hidden items in locations.
2
6
Set of Arms
The Species possesses a second (or third) set of 
Arms.
The Species has a second set of arms to hold 
additional equipment or supplies.
3
2
Set of Legs
The Species possesses a second (or third) set of 
Legs
The Species has a second set of Legs, moves faster 
than most.
3
2
Shifters
The Species, through adaptation or genetic 
tinkering, has developed a form of natural 
camouflage, taking the forms of others.
The Species has the ability to shift into the form of 
another creature, but not copy its mannerisms or 
speech patterns. Must be the same size.
6
4
Short Wings
The Species possesses a pair of short wings.
If the Species is Size Small or Below, the Species 
gains a rudimentary ability to fly equal to their Pace.
5
3
Skill Potential
The Species, while not particularly universally 
skilled, often find themselves with specific 
inclinations during their lives.
The Drifter adds a +5% to Development of one of 
their Skills.
0
7
Skillful
The Species becomes easily obsessed with a 
particular set of skills throughout their lives.
All Characters from this Species choose one Skill of 
their choice - they apply two Skill Tags.
0
8
Solar Sensitivity 
(By Sex Pistols)
The Species has developed in a low-UV 
entirement, rendering the sunÅfs rays to be 
dangerous.
The Drifter has a -5 / -25% to all Actions when 
standing in the sunlight without protection. They 
take double damage from any Solar Damage.
5
-6
Sonar
The Species has developed a natural sonar, able to 
detect signals from a distance away.
The Drifter may make their ÅgSonar PingÅh and focus 
on it, telling whatÅfs in the immediate vicinity.
6
4
Soul Blight
(By Cole)
The Species is particularly susceptible to magical 
onslaughts. 
The Drifter has a -2 to their Magical Resistance.
-4
-4
Sticky Resin
The Species has adopted a residue on their skin 
allowing them to seemingly "walk on walls" and 
other solid surfaces for a limited time.
The Species has the ability to walk on solid surfaces 
for up to 2 minutes before the resin wears off.
4
3
Subterranean
The Species functions well in underground 
situations and can live comfortably underground.
The Species is able to burrow into the soil or other 
natural earth. If it has Augmented POW, this goes 
through stone. Mechanical POW, through Metal.
5
3
Survivors
The Species is naturally adapts to surviving 
incredibly harsh conditions and has developed 
accordingly.
The Drifter has +2 / 10% when they are attempting 
to survive in the wilderness or hostile environments.
0
2
Synthetic 
Adaptability
The Species has developed, perhaps through 
need, the use of artificial limbs easily.
The DrifterÅfs base Cybernetic Stress is doubled.
0
5
Synthetic 
Rejection
The Species, due to unique biology or neural 
pathway rejection, cannot use artificial limbs.
The DrifterÅfs base Cybernetic Stress is halved.
0
-3
Tail
The Species has a tail that not only gives away 
emotional states, but also helps in balancing and 
holding objects.
The Species has a tail that acts as an appendage. 
Can be used to hold light items.
1
1
Telepathic 
Communicae
The Species has developed in a society that they 
may only communicate through telepathy.
The Drifter cannot speak traditionally, instead 
relying on aggravated hand signs or telepathy to 
communicate with others. 
They begin with the Psychic Mesial Power of 
Telepathy immediately. 
8
-2
Tough
The Species is tougher than most others, they are 
able to take a punch harder and better than others 
of a similar size.
The Drifter adds +1d10 Endurance, every CL 
increases their Endurance by an additional +1d6.
0
3
Twin Heads
The Species has two heads, what evolutionary 
purpose does this serve?
The Species has two heads, they may or may not 
actually be twice as smart.
8
1
Unadaptable
The Species has evolved to function in a single 
environment, making most others hostile when not 
in a protective suit.
The Species requires special armor or equipment to 
survive in their non-preferred biome. That biome is 
not on Errant Earth is active supply.
4
-6
Unfolding
The Species has developed an unfortunate, if 
terrifying, mutation that allows it to "Unfold" itself to 
a taller stature.
The Drifter can increase their size by one step and 
back, but is no longer affected by Light Cover.
7
2
Unholy Biology
The Species natural biology makes it difficult to fit 
armor to them properly.
The Species doubles the cost of all Armor and 
Clothing.
7
-2
Universal Donor
The DrifterÅfs Species has a Universal Blood Type, 
able to accept all blood types and supply blood to 
others.
The Drifter adds an additional +2d6 to Endurance 
and Health Recovery in a Medical Setting.
0
5
Unlocked Joints
The Species's bone structure can easily be 
unlocked and twisted, allowing them to fit into tight 
spaces.
The Species gains a +4 / +20% to all contortionist 
checks or resetting broken bones.
4
4
Unnatural Aura
(By Cole)
The Species radiates a strange energy, one that 
seems to both attract and repel others.
The Drifter has a +2 to their Psychic and Magic 
Resistance to resist mental effects. They add an 
additional  +1 Demeanor to Contacts they gain.
0
8
Unseen
The Species naturally has an ability to sneak 
undetected through either adaptation or ability.
The Species has +4 / +20% when making a Stealth 
Check or attempting to remain hidden.
4
5
Uplift
The Species has been uplifted from a primitive 
state by another.
The Drifter has a +2 to one Attribute of Choice and 
it is considered Augmented.
2
6
Void Dwellers
The Species has adapted to live in Zero-G 
Environments and struggles to adapt to on-land 
situations.
The Drifter functions normally in Zero Gravity 
environments, but takes a -2 / -10% to all physical 
checks while inside a gravity well.
5
-4
Void Survivors
The Species is able to survive, for a small time, in 
the vacuum of space.
The Drifter may stay alive in the perfect vacuum or 
underwater for 3d6 + HRD Minutes. If taken twice, 
increase this to 3d6 + HRD Hours.
7
4
Voracious 
(By Sex Pistols)
The Species has a massive caloric need compared 
to others.
The Drifter must consume double the number of 
Rations they are required to. They eat twice as 
much as usual.
1
-2
Walking Colony
The Species is in fact thousands of tinier organisms 
bound together in a close knit symbiotic 
relationship, their personhood is somewhat 
questioned.
The Species regenerates health at half the regular 
speed, but can split apart into two sections ones size 
smaller, or four if two sizes smaller,  if the need 
arises.
10
3
Wanderers
The Species has no home, nor do they want one. 
They simply wander.
The Species isn't tied to any one place, but without a 
home, are they truly a unified people?
0
0
Wing Arms
The Species possesses a pair of wings that replace 
a set of their arms, disallowing holding anything in 
them.
If the Species Size is Average or Below, the Species 
gains a rudimentary ability to fly. Cannot hold 
anything in Wing Arms
6
3
Wooly
The Species has a thick coat of wool around them 
that insulates them from cold weather.
The Species has natural resistance to cold 
temperatures and can survive harsh frigid climates 
with ease.
3
1
X-Ray Vision
The Species has developed X-Ray Vision, allowing 
them to gaze through certain objects.
The Drifter has X-Ray Vision, viewing things from the 
unnatural angle of through it.
6
5
Zenkai Boost
The Species is trained to survive death, no matter 
the cost and emerge stronger because of it.
Everytime the Drifter takes a Scar, they gain +1d6 to 
two Attributes.
0
8


Notepad Thinks Thoughts


Backgrounds

Oni (Race)
Devil Horns, Spirit Warriors
	Oni are the result of years and years of inbreeding among the genetic trash of Domains of the 
Feudal Lords. Their various genetic quirks make them invaluable for the Osama who wish to employ 
their Ågspiritual abilitiesÅh to hunt their enemies, serve in their armies, or simply bloody their blades in their 
name. Due to these factors Oni have a unique position in the Domain System, being above the 
common rabble, but never really being able to increase their standing among the noble Kizoku, let 
alone to claim a title of an Osama.
	The DrifterÅfs bloodline sticks with them, an inevitability that seems to be both a blessing and a 
curse. The Oni who wander are the ones who either seek to make a name for themselves or seek to 
spite that title they have. 

ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D8
Bravado
D4
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D8
Hardiness
D8
Power
D10
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D4


Endurance
+1d8 / CL
Health
+2 / CL
Karma
1
Potential
+10 Psychic
ESP / MP
+1d4
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
4


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Lore: Oni
Cultural
Core
Monster Hunter
Military
Trained
Scouter
Military
Trained
War Veteran
ATB
ATB
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
Military
Trained
Any
Psychic (if Awakened)
Trained

 

Blood of the Oni - Oni have different hues of red skin with their two distinctive 
horns protruding from their forehead. They have a total of 10 Species Points to 
develop other quirks about their nature as well as two Expressions. 

Horn Humming - The DrifterÅfs horns hum when danger is afoot, they can 
never be ambushed in a pre-planned ambush.

Battle Instinct - The Drifter has a natural warriorÅfs Instinct embedded into 
their heart, they add +2 to Personal Initiative every two Ranks.. At Rank 4, 6, 
and 8 they may adopt a new Weapon Proficiency or Weapon Specialization.

Never Truly Dead - After the battle ends, the Oni can rapidly heal themselves. 
They recover 1d6 Endurance or Health every hour, resting or not.

Starting Equipment Package: Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Oni, Warrior, Savagery

Transfer Requirements: Cannot Transfer

Standard Transfer : Man-at-Arms
?
Occupations

Samurai (Man-At-Arms)
Loyalist, Bushi, Swordslaves
	When the Domains were first established, the petty warlords who would later become the 
Osama adopted their personal retinue of warriors to make up their armies. These warriors and their 
successors would later become the first of the New Samurai, taking up the mantle of the old worldÅfs 
culture. Samurai are bound to a Domain and the ruling Osama, though loyalties between the two may 
vary drastically between each Samurai. Samurai exist among the Kizoku, but also the Heishi class of 
soldiers, often depending drastically upon their upbringing and personal wealth. 
	Samurai Drifters are those who are on their quest, whether itÅfs for enlightenment, exile, or on a 
prolonged operation of their Domain. They are loyal first to their Domain and the road a far second, 
but their martial excellency and nobility make them an ideal combination for wayward souls.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D6
WIllpower
D10


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+2 / 2 CL
Karma
2
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
Note
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Dueling
Military
Core
Etiquette
People
Core
Modern Melee 
Weapons
Weapon Proficency
Weapon Profiency
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
People
Trained
Any
Military
Trained

Starting Equipment Package: Exile or 
Soldier
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 250 Credits

Signature Focus: Domain, Regal 
Authority, Warrior Spirit
Transfer Requirements: Swear a 
Samurai Oath to an Osama

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms


Sword Saint - Rigorously trained in the Domain Battle Halls, the Drifter has +2 to 
Combat Checks with Melee Weapons every 3 Ranks. They increase all Melee Weapon 
Damage die by one step.

LordÅfs Sign - The Drifter is a Samurai of a Domain, they have privileges inside of their 
Domain that exceeds others. In addition, if they enter a foreign Domain, they are 
considered a diplomat (for better or worse). 

DeathÅfs End - The Drifter cannot transfer out of being a Samurai until they have 
completed one of three things: Abandoned their Oath and became the Ronin 
Occupation, become Ennobled and take the Noble Occupation, or Drift from the Warrior 
Way and become an Acolyte or Scholar Occupation. If they already have one of these, 
they may Transfer out at Rank 4.

Ceaseless Training  - The Samurai gains a Weapon Proficiency or Weapon 
Specialization every two Ranks.





Ronin (Man-At-Arms)
Broken Swords, Traitors, Ghost Soldiers
	As long as swords have been bound by oath and title, there have been ones attempting to cut 
free from them. Ronin are, or were, Samurai of the Domains - trained in battle halls and making war in 
the name of their Osama. But something changed, it may have been something large, something 
small, or perhaps even a mistake that they had no part in. Whatever that change was they 
abandoned the Samurai Path, instead becoming a ghost of themselves. Whether they treat their new 
found freedom as a blessing, or a curse as they are now hunted by their former brothers-in-arms, is 
up to them.
	Ronin Drifters? All Ronin are adrift in the sea of their own thoughts and troubled loyalties, 
wandering from place to place to ply their deadly trade is a necessity. Drifters following the way of 
the ghost soldier is a Drifter who cut themselves off from a life they once had. A life that seems so long 
ago.


ATTRIBUTE
Die Value
Anima
D4
Bravado
D8
Comprehension
D6
Finesse
D6
Hardiness
D8
Power
D8
Speed
D8
WIllpower
D8


Endurance
+1d6 / CL
Health
+2 / 2 CL
Karma
2
Potential
-
ESP / MP
-
Transfer
4
Learning Rate
2


PRIMARY SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Military Combat 
Training
Combat Training
Combat Training
Dueling
Military
Core
Banter
People
Core
 
LEARNED SKILLS
CATEGORY
Type
Any
Any
Hobby
Any
People
Trained
Any
Military
Trained
Any
Espionage & Roguery
Trained

Starting Equipment Package: Exile
 
Starting Wealth: 1d10 x 10 Credits

Signature Focus: Ronin, Traitorous, 
Lonely, Vagabond
Transfer Requirements: Abandon their 
Samurai oath or have it stripped away 
from them.

Standard Transfer : Man-At-Arms or 
Adventurer


Haunted Sword Saint - Rigorously trained in the Domain Battle Halls, the 
Drifter has +2 to Combat Checks with Melee Weapons every 4 Ranks. They 
increase all Melee Weapon Damage die by one step.

Hunted - The Drifter is a Ronin, turning their back on a Domain and the lord 
therein. Legally they are considered a criminal inside of that Domain and are 
fair game for everyone else across the land for a bounty.

Wave Rider - The Drifter is transient by nature, due to their indulgence in less 
than noble arts, every 4 Ranks they may add +10% to one Espionage & Rogue, 
Military, or Wilderness Skill.

Unconventional Warfare - The Drifter may adopt a Weapon Specialty or 
Weapon Proficiency every 3 Ranks .






Robot Stuff List


Robotica Cyberntica
	If the Drifter is a Robot or indulging in cybernetics, they will need to consult the Robotics 
Creation System to determine their new make, creation, and additional effects that come from being 
synthetic. Similar to Species Rating, the Robot will need to determine their Robotics Chassis Rating to 
determine how much is packed into their system. The more they have, the more difficult it is for them 
to Transfer out of their steel exterior and actually develop themselves successfully.
	
Robotics Chassis Rating Chart
Chassis Rating 
Points Used
Less Than 0
1 - 10
11 - 20
21 - 30
31 - 40
41 - 50
51+
Transfer 
(How Long are you 
ÅgStuckÅh in this Race)
1
2
4
6
8
10
NPC
Karma
5
3
1
-1
-3
-5
NPC

	When a Robot is being designed they have their Base Attribute Choices already established, 
rather than relying on the whims of fate to actually do such. These are mostly designed around which 
kind of parts are being used to build them and the skill of the craftsmen who brought them to life. 
	They will also need to worry about their Human Deviation Index similarly to the Exos, but rather 
than being outright horror or revulsion, the Robot must contend with being too alien to be fitted or 
repaired correctly without the right parts. A specialized Robot built for purpose with parts only found 
in one factory may be difficult to repair and save them when it goes all wrong. 

Base Attribute Choices - Robotic Attribute Rating
Attribute Base
0
4
8
12
16
20
Robot Chassis
-2
-1
0
1
3
5

Scrap Grade
Standard Grade
Real Grade
High Grade
Master Grade
Perfect Grade

Skill Choices 
(Do You Have Skills YouÅfre Qualified In?)

Learning Rate 
(How able are you when learning?)
Skill Type
Hobby
Trained
Core

Every 6 Ranks
0
Primary
1
2
4

Every 4 Ranks
2
Learned
2
4
6

Every 2 Ranks
4

Human Deviation Index
Human 
Deviation
0 - 10
11 - 20
21 - 30
31 - 40
41 - 50
51+
Demeanor
0
-1
-3
-5
-10
Inhuman
Horror Factor
-
-
-
0
-4
-8
Parts  
(How Simple is it to 
repair)
Ubiquitous Parts 
(+20%)
Consumer Parts 
(+10%)
Factory Parts 
(0%)
Industrial Parts 
(-10%)
Specialist Parts 
(-20%)
Unique Parts 
(NA)
?

Base Robot 
Frame
Attribute 
Changes
Effect
Pace
Human 
Deviation
Chassis 
Rating
Drone
+2 FIN, +2 SPD, -
2 HRD, -2 POW

+1
5
0
Humanoid
+1 to All

-
4
6
Liquid Metal
+2 to HRD, POW, 
and SPD
Reconstitute - The DrifterÅfs primary body is composed of 
liquid metal, allowing them to ÅgliquifyÅh themselves for up 
to HRD Minutes. 
-
8
6
Purposebuilt
+3 to One ATB
Specialized Patents  - The Drifter was built to perform a 
specialized function, they Choose one Skill as a Core Skill 
with the Aced, Take20, and Assured Skill Tag.
-
5
8
Replicant
+2 to All
Synthetic Dawn - Replicants are designed to look and 
act human, too human to others. There is an uncanny 
nature to them.
-
0
8
Vehicle
+1 to All
Hot Rod Made of Dreams  - The Robot may spend as 
much money as they wish to design their actual body 
using the Vehicle Creation Rules. Hardiness is added to 
the VehicleÅfs total Hull & Durability. 
 
Must fit within the requirements listed below.
Note
+2 for Every 
10,000 Spent
+2 / 
7,500

Vehicle & Supertype Attribute Requirements

Personal
Compact
Mid-Size
Large
Rig
Titanic
Anima
-
-
-
10 or Below
6 or Below
3 or Below
Bravado
12+
10+
8+
-
-
-
Comprehension
14+
12+
10+
8+
-
-
Finesse
18+
14+
10+
8 or Below
6 or Below
4 or Below
Hardiness
9 or Below
11 or Below
13 or Less
14+
18+
22+
Power
12+
-
-
12+
16+
20+
Speed
18+
-
-
8 or Below
6 or Below
4 or Below
Willpower
-
-
-
10 or Below
6 or Below
3 or Below

Å@Å@Å@Each Robotic Frame	has a number of Slots designed to fit in various features. For example, a 
Humanoid Robot has 3 Sensor Slots to fit in different Sensor Traits, but only 1 CPU Slot. If the Drifter 
desperately needs or wants a Trait that they have no more Slots for, they may sacrifice two from 
other categories to take it. Open Slots may be used for any type of Trait.

Base Frame
Open Slots
Sensors
CPU
Body
Interactors
Locomotion
Drone
12
-
-
-
-
-
Humanoid
3
3
1
2
2
2
Purposebuilt
3
2
2
3
1
1
Replicant
0
1
3
3
2
1
Vehicle
-
[Vehicle Modules] + 6
-

Å@Å@Å@Robotic Programming signifies the base expectations and needs of the RobotÅfs purpose. While 
many Robots still follow the Laws of Robotics out of obligation, many others have deviated so far from 
their base programming itÅfs difficult to fully understand them, but their make and model still defines 
their abilities.
Å@Å@Å@Anthropocentric Designs are flairs or minor abilities that assist the Robot in completing their 
task, such as being a portable drink dispenser in addition to other creative flairs to their design, 
exaggerated features, multiple voices, etc.
Å@Å@Å@Features are the Skill Choices that the Drifter has access to and which ones they are able to 
invest in successfully. For example a Industrial Robot may select any number of Technical or Electronic 
& Mechanical Skills to begin with, but cannot take any People Skills.

Programming

Combat 
Labor
Service
Industrial
Administrative
Human Deviation
8
2
0
8
4
Chassis
10
0
2
10
5
Anthrocentric 
Designs
4
2
5
2
4
Features
Combat Training, 
Weapon Proficiency, 
Weapon 
Specialization
Trade Skills
Electronics & 
Mechanics Skills, 
People Skills, 
Cultural and 
Domestic, 
Technical Skills, 
Electronics & 
Mechanics Skills
Science Skills, 
Medical Skills, 
Espionage Skills, 
Military Skills, 
Durability (END)
4d8+(HRD x 3)
2d8 + (HRD x 2)
2d6 + HRD
6d8 + (HRD x 4)
2d6 + HRD
Internals (HP)
HRD x 3
HRD x 2
HRD
HRD x 4
HRD

Size Traits
Description
Human 
Deviation
Chassis 
Rating
Tiny
The Drifter is incredibly small, standing in about 1.5 to 3 Feet (45 to 91 cm), while this is 
a benefit at some points, at others it's a major determinant.
1
2
Small
The Drifter is naturally shorter than most, standing about 3 to 4 Feet (91 to 122 cm). 
While shorter, they do possess a "small" advantage.
0
1
Average
The Drifter is fairly average in height ranging roughly from 5 to 7 feet (152 to 213 cm). 
This has no notable advantages or disadvantages.
1
0
Big
The Drifter is larger than normal, standing around 8 to 10 Feet (243 to 304 cm). While 
taller and tougher, they do struggle in some areas.
2
4
Huge
The Drifter is massive compared to others, standing at around 11 to 13 Feet (335 to 
396 cm). Able to easily take a hit due to their size, they come at the cost of being 
unable to go through most doors.
5
8
?

Traits
LOCATION
Description
Effect
Human 
Deviation
Chassis
Rating
360Åã Ocular 
Vision System
Sense
INVASIVE
The RobotÅfs vision system extends in a 360Åã 
angle around them.
The Drifter gains a +2 / +10%  to all Sight 
Based Checks. May perceive objects all 
around them.
3
2
Advanced 
Communicator
Senses
THe Robot has an advanced 
communications array installed.
The Drifter may become a local radio signal, 
enter shortwave chats within 90 Feet.
1
3
Amphibious
Body
The RobotÅfs body is designed for aquatic 
operations, reinforced and insulated. 
The Drifter can move completely unhindered 
in water.
3
1
Armored 
Internals Box
Body
The RobotÅfs internal systems are protected 
by a thick layer of under armour and 
redundant plating. 
The Drifter begins at an Armor Rating of 5, but 
each subsequent time this is taken, increases it 
by +1. Counts as Inner Armor with [HRD x 4] 
Durability.,
4
5
Automated 
Defensive 
Systems
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot has developed a method to react 
automatically to threats should they come 
under duress.
The Drifter gains +4 NSR at the start of 
Combat.
3
5
Awkward 
Movement
Locomotion
The Robots system isnÅft designed for intense 
movements.
The Robot has -1 Pace to a minimum of .25.
3
-3
Battery Acid
BODY
INVASIVE
The RobotÅfs internal battery acid sprays 
haphazardly when struck.
The Drifter, when attacked in melee and takes 
Endurance or Health, immediately deals 2d6 
Mega Damage to the Attacker.
2
4
Bender Unit
Body
The Robot has an uncanny ability to bend 
things. Roughly.
The DrifterÅfs Heavy Weight may be bent up to 
90Åã
2
5
Binary Clicker
CPU
The Robot is unable to speak conventional 
human language, relying instead on Binary2.
The Robot is unable to communicate verbally, 
changing their default language to Language: 
Binary2 instead. 
5
-2
Binoculars
Senses
The Robot has binoculars embedded in their 
sensor 
The Drifter can magnify their vision up to four 
times the distance.
0
2
Brick Feet
Locomotion
The Robot is inherently poor at balance or 
moving specifically..
The Drifter has -1 to their NSR.
0
-1
Built Touch
BODY
The Robot is tough, able to ignore some pain 
outside their size.
The Drifter gains +2d10 Endurance and +1d10 
Internals
1
3
Combat Mode
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot has an adapted ÅgCombat ModeÅh 
which they may enter into.
The Drifter uses an Action to switch to a 
Combat Mode: It gains a [Defined] Combat 
Specialization
5
6
Compartments
BODY
The Robot has a set of compartments 
integrated into their body.
The Drifter has a set of compartments on their 
body, allowing them to store hand sized items 
in them.
1
1
Complex 
Digestive 
System
Body
INVASIVE
The Robot is able to convert biological 
material into functional energy.
The Robot may ÅgeatÅh and ÅgdrinkÅh food 
normally, charging their batteries and feeling 
energized (if a bit ÅgFullÅh for a time).
0
3
Connector Port
CPU
The Robot has a connector to enable them 
to access computer systems.
The Drifter has access to Hacking Tools.
2
3
Corporate 
Sponsorship
CPU
The Robot is OFFICIALLY owned by a 
corporation and LOVES it.
The Robot has a corporate sponsorship and 
receives (1d10 x 10) Credits every month in a 
maintenance stipend.
1
1
Cortical Stack
CPU
The Robot has embedded a Cortical Stack, 
containing a backup of various information 
about their sense of self.
If the Drifter is ever killed with a recoverable 
body, the Cortical Stack will allow them to 
ÅgRepuloadÅh in a Robotic Husk after 24 Hours. 
 
Character Maintains Memories, CL, Ranks, 
and Skills. Not Attributes.
8
16
Credit Farm
CPU
Half of the RobotÅfs CPU is dedicated to 
mining and processing Credits.
The Robot adds +1d10 (5) Credits to their 
account every day. All Skills have -2% 
Development.
4
2
Danger Senses
CPU
The Robot has developed an acute 
automatic reaction to dangers.
The Drifter, once per combat, gains +6 NSR. 
Can be used reactively.
0
4
Dedicated 
Bloatware
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot is fairly lethargic when it comes to 
their personal development, allowing certain 
Skills to fall by the wayside during their lives.
The Drifter reduces the Development of all 
Skills by -2%
0
-5
Defensive 
Combat Matrix
CPU
The RobotÅfs CPU has been uploaded with 
defensive combat matrixes. 
The Drifter has +1 Auto-Dodge or Auto-Parry.
0
5
Drone Wings
BODY
INVASIVE
The Robot possesses a pair of short wings.
If the Drifer is Size Small or Below, the Species 
gains a rudimentary ability to fly equal to their 
Pace.
5
3
Elasticity Arm
Interactor
The Robot may augment their body to 
stretch over long distances.
The Drifter may extend their arms or legs by 
three times their normal length - for a HRD 
Check, they may extend them up to ten times 
their length.
4
5
Elemental 
Immunity
BODY
The Robot is immune to a certain kind of 
Element.
The Drifter is unaffected by one Core Element 
(Aeroes, Cryos, Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, 
or Steama)
4
4
Elemental 
Resistance
BODY
The Robot is resistant to a certain kind of 
Element.
The Drifter is naturally resistant and takes half 
damage from one Core Element (Aeroes, 
Cryos, Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, or 
Steama)
3
2
Elemental 
Weakness
BODY
The Robot is especially vulnerable to natural 
phenomena.
The Drifter is susceptible to one Core Element 
(Aeroes, Cryos, Geos, Lectricus, Hydros, Pyros, 
or Steama). Taking double damage.
4
-2
Final Option
Body
The Robot has a miniaturized bomb  
embedded in their body.
For an Action, the Robot may detonate their 
[HRD]d20 MD Bomb in their body with the 
Area Tag. They are destroyed immediately.
7
7
Fortress Built
BODY
The Robot is so large and bulky it provides 
natural cover simply being next to them.
If the Drifter is Big or Huge, all allies in the 
same Space are considered to be in Light 
Cover. The Robot is not affected by Light 
Cover though.
6
3
Fragile
BODY
The Robot is built with weak, breakable, and 
often fragile parts. Amazingly, it still works.
The Drifter has half of their total Blood and 
Endurance.
2
-5
High Endurance 
Plating
Body
The RobotÅfs body is composed of High 
Endurance Plating, allowing them to resist 
certain effects.
The Robot has a natural Exposure Resistance 
Rating of 5 toward Heat and Cold.
5
3
High Threat 
Environment 
Unit 
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot is adept  to surviving incredibly 
harsh conditions and has developed 
accordingly.
The Drifter reduces all Exposure by three 
Steps
1
4
Infrared Sight
Sense 
INVASIVE
The Robot has a visual receptor that can see 
in the infrared spectrum and detect heat 
signatures.
The Drifter may switch to Infrared Spectrum, 
allowing them to see heat signatures and 
other things.
3
2
Inhumane 
Design Ethos
Body
The RobotÅfs design is inherently inhuman and 
making anything for them is complicated.
The Drifter doubles the cost of all Armor and 
Clothing.
4
-2
Jittery
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot is known to snap into action, 
jittering and moving quickly. 
The Drifter adds an additional +3 Personal 
Initiative.
0
4
Kawaii Design 
Philosophy
Body
The Robot is naturally considered "Cute" and 
others tend to fawn over them. For better or 
for worse.
The Drifter increases their Demeanor by two 
Steps for everyone.
3
2
Lawbreaker 
CPU
The Robot has never had, broke, or has 
retooled the Three Laws of Robotics to 
make them an amoral killing machine.
The Drifter reduces their Demeanor to 0 and 
may have no Contacts.
7
-4
Leaping Ability
Locomotion
The RobotÅfs locomotion ability has enabled it 
to increase its jump height.
The Drifter triples their Vertical and Horizontal 
Jump. They also may have basic air control 
(adjusting direction, controlled descent, etc) 
for FIN Check.
3
2
Levitation
Locomotion
The RobotÅfs Locomotion is primarily driven 
by propelling themselves via levitation or 
other magnetic flotation. 
The Drifter may move equal to their Pace 
while flying. May double their Pace if they 
succeed at a COM Check.
4
6
Long Wings
Body
INVASIVE
The Robot possesses a pair of powerfully 
built wings.
If the Drifter is Average or Below size, the 
Species gains a rudimentary ability to fly (half 
Pace).
6
4
Mechandrite
Interactor
The Robot has a number of exterior 
appendage limbs that can double as either 
singular arms, legs, or anything else really.
The Drifter has a singular mechandrite limb 
that allow the manipulation as though they 
were an arm or leg..
2
2
Natural Melee 
Weapons
Any
The Robot has an inbuilt natural weapon, 
allowing them to defend themselves from 
harm
The Drifter begins with a Default Standard 
Melee Weapon of their choice that cannot be 
disarmed. May be purchased again for 
different weapons.
4
5
Nightvision
Sense
The Robot is able to turn on a Night Vision 
mode for their ocular systems. 
The Drifter negates any penalties to seeing 
things in the dark or navigating during the 
night.
1
2
Nimble
Body
The Robot is inherently dexterous and light 
on their feet, allowing for great displays of 
agility.
The Drifter begins with +1 Auto-Dodge.
1
3
Nite Light 
EyeSight
Sense
The RobotÅfs eyes automatically adjust to a 
flashlight intensity as darkness sets it.
The Drifter is able to adjust the light of their 
eyes from Dull, Luminescent,  Bright, and 
Intense
3
1
Overclocked 
Combat Routine
CPU
The Robot throws itself into a berserk flailing 
motion during combat.
The Drifter gains +2 to Combat Checks in 
Melee, but has -2 NSR.
2
3
Personality 
Chips
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot has multiple Personality Chips 
installed, itÅfs like a dozen friends in one!
The Drifter may switch into a separate 
personality matrix.
6
1
Planned 
Obsolescence
Any
The Robot is unnaturally short lived, burning 
out just as theyÅfre getting started. 
The Drifter has a short life, their lifespan is 2d6 
+ 15 Years long.
2
-1
Polyglots
CPU
The Robot language filters have developed 
themselves to being able to interpret and 
speak 
The Drifter can speak all known languages 
and can translate easily. A (COM - 2) Attribute 
Check or a Social Sciences Skill Check can be 
called to learn new languages should they be 
encountered.
1
4
Proles
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot is servile by nature, never fully fit 
for more "Advanced" jobs in any world.
When the Drifter takes a Trade, it is 
immediately assigned a Skill Tag. All Science 
Skills are considered to have -3% less 
Development.
3
1
Pulled In Limbs
Body
The Robot is able to pull their robotic limbs 
into their body to rest, able to contort and 
move into things. 
The Drifter gains a +4 / +20% to all 
contortionist checks or resetting broken bones.
3
4
Quarry Junction
Body
The Robot functions well in underground 
situations and can live comfortably 
underground.
The Drifter is able to burrow into the soil or 
other natural earth. May cut through stone 
and metal objects.
5
4
Rapid Probability 
Simulation
CPU
The RobotÅfs CPU has dedicated its 
processing speed to deciding the next set of 
actions carefully at all times. 
The Drifter may reroll any Check they make 
once a Session, relying on the rapid calculation 
to adjust themselves.
3
5
Redundant 
Systems 
BODY
The RobotÅfs systems are filled with 
redundant or supplementary internal 
services to keep themselves functional. 
The Drifter doubles their starting Internal.
2
7
Salesforce
CPU
The Robot has a dedicated salesman 
programming, allowing them to ÅgCLOSE THE 
DEAL!Åh
The Drifter gains +4 / +20% when engaging in 
mercantile or haggling for business or goods.
1
2
Scavenged Bits
Any
The Robot is mostly composed of scavenged 
bits and pieces
The Robot reduces their Durability and 
Internals by one multiple to a minimum of 1.
2
-3
Scavengers
CPU
The Robot is a natural set of scavengers and 
finders, allowing them to discover gold in 
trash.
The Drifter gains a +4 / +20% when trying to 
scavenge locations or attempting to discover 
hidden items in locations.
2
5
Scholarcore 
(?)
CPU
INVASIVE
The Robot has access to a SCHOLARCORE 
(?) System Installed, granting them a 
plethora of various information. 
The Drifter Aces two Skills of their choice, 
every three Ranks gains a new Skill Tag.
5
3
Set of Arms
Interactors
The Robot possesses a second (or third) set 
of Arms.
The Drifter has a second set of arms to hold 
additional equipment or supplies.
3
2
Set of Legs
Locomotion
The Robot possesses a second (or third) set 
of Legs
The Drifter has a second set of Legs, moves 
faster than most.
3
2
Skill Potential
CPU
The Robot , while not particularly universally 
skilled, often find themselves with specific 
inclinations during their lives.
The Drifter adds a +5% to Development of one 
of their Skills.
0
7
Sonar
Sense
The Robot has an inbuilt Sonar System, able 
to detect signals from a distance away.
The Drifter may make their ÅgSonar PingÅh and 
focus on it, telling whatÅfs in the immediate 
vicinity.
4
3
Spaghetti 
Coding
CPU
The Robot has failed to attune well with a 
particular Attribute.
The Drifter caps one of their Attributes to 8, it 
cannot increase beyond this limit.
2
-4
Toolbelt
Any
The Robot has multiple small tools 
embedded into their hardware.
The Drifter has access to simple tools such as 
a wrench, screwdriver, scissors, etc
1
1
Trade Feature
Any
The Robot has a specialized part to assist 
them in their daily tasks.
The Robot has a single part which helps them 
perform any one [Trade] Skill they possess.
2
4
Transforming
Body
The Robot is able to switch between two 
forms.
The Robot spends two Actions to Transform 
Themselves into a Different Robot Frame. 
Same as 
Frame +2
Same as 
Frame + 2
Transmorpher
Body
The Robot is able to transform themselves 
into a different shape altogether.
The Drifter is able to spend an Action to shift 
its appearance into a similar Robot of the 
same Robotic Frame and Size.. 
4
6
Treads
Locomotion
INVASIVE
The RobotÅfs legs are replaced with tread 
tracks.
The Robot takes no penalty for crossing 
Hazardous or Difficult Terrain. 
6
4
Unfolding
Body
INVASIVE
The Robot may unfold itself into a taller 
stature and for human use.
The Drifter can increase their size by one step 
and back, but is no longer affected by Light 
Cover.
2
6
Unseen
Body
The Robot has a sleek look to it, focused on 
infiltration and remaining undetected. 
Popular in the service industry.
The Drifter has +4 / +20% when making a 
Stealth Check or attempting to remain 
hidden.
4
5
Uptick Time
Sense
The RobotÅfs uptick for threats is . . . less 
efficient than it should be. 
The Drifter has a -2 to their Personal Initiative
0
-4
Utility Belt
Body
The Robot has embedded on their person a 
set of immediate response items.
The DrifterÅfs Belt Size is now 12,.
2
2
Void Dwellers
Body
INVASIVE
The Robot is built for Zero-G Environments, 
designed for space and vacuum. 
The Drifter functions normally in Zero Gravity 
environments, but takes a -2 / -10% to all 
physical checks while inside a gravity well.
5
-4
Wing Arms
Interactor
INVASIVE
The Robot possesses a pair of wings that 
replace a set of their arms, disallowing 
holding anything in them.
If the Species Size is Average or Below, the 
Species gains a rudimentary ability to fly. 
Cannot hold anything in Wing Arms
6
3
X-Ray Vision
Senses
The Robot has built-in X-Ray Vision, allowing 
them to gaze through certain objects.
The Drifter has X-Ray Vision, viewing things 
from the unnatural angle of through it.
4
3
?
Cybertroniks
	Drifters who lose limbs willingly or not will most likely begin indulging in Cybernetics to 
compensate for the lack of other aspects. They will first need to calculate to see how much their body 
can sustain through the use of their Cybernetic Stress. 

Cybernetic Stress Calculation
[HRD]
If Cybernetic Stress Exceeds Limit, reduce HP to compensate.

	Basic Cybernetics allow the Drifter to augment various aspects of their body by replacing limbs 
or other essential components with technology. Base Cybernetics (Cyber Arm, Cyber Legs, etc) are 
entirely defined by their Modifier which the Drifter will need to determine and purchase when they 
find what they like. For example, a Cybertronik Arm that is Standard Grade granting a +2 to POW 
would be 2000 Credits with the amount of Cybernetic Stress is takes being (2 * 1d10). Every installation 
runs the risk of exceeding their Cybernetic Stress as their body begins to fail rapidly on the operating 
table. 

Cybernetics & Cybernetic Stress

Scrap
Standard
Real
High
Master
Perfect
Stress
[Modifier * 1d12]
[Modifier * 1d10]
[Modifier * 1d8]
[Modifier * 1d6]
[Modifier * 1d4]
[Modifier]
Cost
Base Credits / 2
Base Credits
Base Creds * 2
Base Credits * 4
Base Credits * 6
Base Credits * 10
If Modifier  
is 0
5 Stress
4 Stress
3 Stress
2 Stress
1 Stress
0 Stress
Base Cost for Cybertroniks is [1000 * Modifier]

Å@Å@Å@Drifters who want to push their bodies to the limit may also opt to install more advanced 
cyberware, often being derivatives of Robotic Chassis Parts. They will multiple the Robot Chassis Cost 
by 500 for the basic installation fee, not the acquisition of the parts - that would be [Robotic Chassis 
Cost * 1000] minimum. The Human Deviation is how much Cybernetic Stress results from it, replacing 
the Modifier in the equations above and adding +5.
Å@Å@Å@The Drifter also has Slots similar to their Robotic compatriots, able to take a number of 
Cybernetics in their body. However if the Drifter installs INVASIVE Cybernetics, then it counts for the 
main Slot and one other of choice. Uninstalling Cybernetics costs the same as the installation fee and 
removes half of the Cybernetic Stress caused by the part. Invasive Cybernetics cannot be Uninstalled 
(bar the more permanent uninstalling methods). 

Base Frame
Open Slots
Sensors
CPU
Body
Interactors
Locomotion
Humanbeing
-
1
1
3
2
1
Full Cyborg
1
2
3
4
4
2



  Scribble Rule - Rolling a 00 on the dice means that they have rolled a 100, not a 0. 
  For example - Trained Investigation would begin at 42% (35% Base + 7% Development). 
  Including Critical Failures!
  A Terrestrial Engineer would be able to ÅgTake 20Åh if they are in a safe garage and focused on their work, allowing them 
to naturally say they rolled a Åg20Åh instead of actually making a Check. 
  Ability to repair and maintain larger scale environments in cities or rural environments. Effectively a city builder.
  If an Exo is performing medical services on their own race or associated race, they may use another Medicine Skill a
  Animals and ÅgLivingÅh Entities use the Animal Husbandry Skill instead of Piloting. Cars donÅft kick!
  Deadball, Mutie League Football, Speedhead Racing, Rock-Em-Sock-Em Boxing, or Gladiatorial Chess
  Successfully completing this requires the user to manifest ÅgInvisible SoupÅh to eat with their teacher - it may taste and feel 
real, but itÅfs ultimately just the Psychic tricking both their minds into believing it is real. 
  Starting as a Trog (1), Arcadian (1), Magus (1) - CL 2 would be  Trog (2), Arcadian (2), Magus (2) - CL 3 is  Trog (3), 
Arcadian (3), Magus (3)
  Starting as a Urban (1), Soldier (1) - CL 2 would be Urban (3), Soldier (2) - CL 3 would be Urban (4), Soldier (4)
  Karma may never be entirely ÅgNegative.Åh -3 Karma is actually just 0 Karma. 
  ÅgAdonisÅh are based on Sgt. Foot, the quintessential American War Hero. Though Sgt. Foot was the Great Lakes prodigal 
son, there are other ÅgAdonisÅh vats spread across the former US and beyond. 
  Cosmic misfortune is their nature - this can be as comical or serious as the GM demands. Just something bad.
  The Menaces for the Great Lakes Coalition: Exos, the Union, Canadians, and ÅgThe Weak of Society.Åh The Skill would allow 
the Coalition Drifter to know about the propaganda surrounding these groups. 
  A Robot cannot be a Cyborg.
  This is their ÅgAdolescentÅh Stage of development, they will get MUCH, MUCH, larger.
  Electing to be Huge by default would ÅgLockÅh in the Background 
Until Rank 10. 
  ÅgI want to boost my POW, I am a Rank 3 Nutype, so I can gain a +6 to my POW for 6 ESP.
  In the Great Lakes Confederacy - Chigeon, Stony Point, Buffalo Falls, Bay Town, and Saint Marie.
  Being a ÅgBlood Eagles HitmanÅh is different from ÅgDrug SmugglerÅh and so on.
  Add all of the Attribute Die together, divide by two, and add +3. For example, D8+D10+D4 = 13 + 3 = New Attribute of 16.
  This would take 4 Actions to move 1 Space.
  25 ESP = 2 Glimmer // 25 MP = 2 Glimmer / 25 ESP and 25 MP = 4 Glimmer
  Those with 1 to 9 ESP or MP generate a light aura, but are difficult to actually detect.
  Hobby / Trained / Core Skill (This requires the same Skill to be Core in the best and the Merger). 
  A Drifter may opt to choose the Average (7) instead of rolling.
  Debilitations wonÅft interfere with raw numbers, but do interfere with how the Drifter will interact with their Attributes, 
Skills, and other events. Arms get lopped off, brains get fried, horrible situations are bound to happen. 
  A Standard Person (NSR 4 Base) would have an NSR of 8 against getting rammed by a vehicle - itÅfs natural to avoid it.
  Multiple Attacks? Weapon Expertise applies to only one unless the Drifter applies it to each of them. Multiple Expertises 
at once? It is possible, but one cannot ÅgDouble UpÅh on any of the Expertises - no Double Spraying. 
  Unless SD equals 100 or more, meaning that it has done 1 Mega Damage.
  Inside the Vehicle / Outside of the Vehicle
  A Magician has a Total Heat of 30, they want to cast a Spell thatÅfs 35 Strain, they may reduce their maximum Magic 
Power by 5 to cast the Spell.
  ÅgIn WorldÅh they would be regarded as just ÅgSpells.Åh
  If a Magician gains an Inscription for free during their Training, it does not add against their total. 
  Normally Distribute three D4Åfs of damage to up to three different Targets. 
  Yes, this does mean that some Wall Types will not dissipate such as through elemental effects or other distorted 
methods.
  Considered to be under Medical Care or in a Garage for purposes of quality of recovery and repair.
  Ignore Armor.
  Markus has a Heat of 25, as he is Sustaining abilities, his total Heat is only 10, but he NEEDS to use an Ability RIGHT NOW 
worth 15. He pays the regular cost and then reduces his ESP by 10 (double the excess) to pay for the rest. 
  Finally, itÅfs time to use my [Technical: Bowling Ball Juggling] Skill at 45%
  If the Psychic were to ÅgTurn OffÅh their Second Order Effect, their Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Order Effects would also 
be shut down to conserve mental energy. Everything builds off one another. 
  The Psychic may use their Reaction to Block on behalf of the Ally, or the Ally can choose to Block instead. 
  At Base 1 ESP for 1 HP, it would take 10 Minutes to heal 10 HP. But must be Sustained the entire time. 
  As another "Incentive" to help others, they will forfeit any bonus Karma they would have gained in addition to their 
default Karma if they refuse to perform a request that they failed against.
  A ÅgBattle RifleÅh can just as easily be a Colt Ranger .68 as much as a banditÅfs stolen Helena V from Stony Point. Adding personal flair to weapons is encouraged. 
  If an entity is flying above you, it counts as Range 1, with an AA Weapon, it counts as Range 0. 
  First Action to Attack, Second Action to Attack has a -4, Third Action to Attack has a -8, etc etc. 
  Multi-Use Technical 
  I convert two Modules to Four Hardpoints - I can now attach four weapons to my Vehicle.
  An Autopistol is just a [Light Kinetic Turret] or a Cycler is a [Photon Ray Cannon] instead. Little things.
  For example, a Drifter has -2 Karma per CL, they would have 0 Karma to spend per CL. If they were to acquire +1 Karma, 
they still have ÅgNegative KarmaÅh of -1 which would translate to 0. 
  Yes, a Combat Robot has access to no Skills outside of continually developing their ability to kill. 
  Due to the methods being able to ÅgBreakÅh the Three Laws of Robotics are easily accessible, it has become somewhat of 
a moral guidepoint for a Robot to Keep the Law or become a Lawbreaker. 
  Scribble Rule - Rolling a 00 on the dice means that they have rolled a 100, not a 0. 
  Starting as a Trog (1), Arcadian (1), Magus (1) - CL 2 would be  Trog (2), Arcadian (2), Magus (2) - CL 3 is  Trog (3), 
Arcadian (3), Magus (3)
  Starting as a Urban (1), Soldier (1) - CL 2 would be Urban (3), Soldier (2) - CL 3 would be Urban (4), Soldier (4)
  Karma may never be entirely ÅgNegative.Åh -3 Karma is actually just 0 Karma. 
  ÅgAdonisÅh are based on Sgt. Foot, the quintessential American War Hero. Though Sgt. Foot was the Great Lakes prodigal 
son, there are other ÅgAdonisÅh vats spread across the former US and beyond. 
  The Menaces for the Great Lakes Coalition: Exos, the Union, Canadians, and ÅgThe Weak of Society.Åh The Skill would allow 
the Coalition Drifter to know about the propaganda surrounding these groups. 
  A Robot cannot be a Cyborg.
  This is their ÅgAdolescentÅh Stage of development, they will get MUCH, MUCH, larger.
  Electing to be Huge by default would ÅgLockÅh in the Background 
Until Rank 10. 
  ÅgI want to boost my POW, I am a Rank 3 Nutype, so I can gain a +6 to my POW for 6 ESP.
  In the Great Lakes Confederacy - Chigeon, Stony Point, Buffalo Falls, Bay Town, and Saint Marie.
  Being a ÅgBlood Eagles HitmanÅh is different from ÅgDrug SmugglerÅh and so on.
  Add all of the Attribute Die together, divide by two, and add +3. For example, D8+D10+D4 = 13 + 3 = New Attribute of 16.
  This would take 4 Actions to move 1 Space.
  25 ESP = 2 Glimmer // 25 MP = 2 Glimmer / 25 ESP and 25 MP = 4 Glimmer
  Those with 1 to 9 ESP or MP generate a light aura, but are difficult to actually detect.
  Hobby / Trained / Core Skill (This requires the same Skill to be Core in the best and the Merger). 
  A Drifter may opt to choose the Average (7) instead of rolling.
  Debilitations wonÅft interfere with raw numbers, but do interfere with how the Drifter will interact with their Attributes, 
Skills, and other events. Arms get lopped off, brains get fried, horrible situations are bound to happen. 
  For example - Trained Investigation would begin at 42% (35% Base + 7% Development). 
  Including Critical Failures!
  A Terrestrial Engineer would be able to ÅgTake 20Åh if they are in a safe garage and focused on their work, allowing them 
to naturally say they rolled a Åg20Åh instead of actually making a Check. 
  Ability to repair and maintain larger scale environments in cities or rural environments. Effectively a city builder.
  If an Exo is performing medical services on their own race or associated race, they may use another Medicine Skill a
  Animals and ÅgLivingÅh Entities use the Animal Husbandry Skill instead of Piloting. Cars donÅft kick!
  Deadball, Mutie League Football, Speedhead Racing, Rock-Em-Sock-Em Boxing, or Gladiatorial Chess
  Successfully completing this requires the user to manifest ÅgInvisible SoupÅh to eat with their teacher - it may taste and feel 
real, but itÅfs ultimately just the Psychic tricking both their minds into believing it is real. 
  A Standard Person (NSR 4 Base) would have an NSR of 8 against getting rammed by a vehicle - itÅfs natural to avoid it.
  Multiple Attacks? Weapon Expertise applies to only one unless the Drifter applies it to each of them. Multiple Expertises 
at once? It is possible, but one cannot ÅgDouble UpÅh on any of the Expertises - no Double Spraying. 
  Unless SD equals 100 or more, meaning that it has done 1 Mega Damage.
  Inside the Vehicle / Outside of the Vehicle
  A Magician has a Total Heat of 30, they want to cast a Spell thatÅfs 35 Strain, they may reduce their maximum Magic 
Power by 5 to cast the Spell.
  ÅgIn WorldÅh they would be regarded as just ÅgSpells.Åh
  If a Magician gains an Inscription for free during their Training, it does not add against their total. 
  Normally Distribute three D4Åfs of damage to up to three different Targets. 
  If the Target is an MD Creature it does MD Damage, if they are an SD Creature it will do SD. No rapid internal explosions. 
Until Giga Rupture. . .
  Yes, this does mean that some Wall Types will not dissipate such as through elemental effects or other distorted 
methods.
  Considered to be under Medical Care or in a Garage for purposes of quality of recovery and repair.
  Ignore Armor.
  Markus has a Heat of 25, as he is Sustaining abilities, his total Heat is only 10, but he NEEDS to use an Ability RIGHT NOW 
worth 15. He pays the regular cost and then reduces his ESP by 10 (double the excess) to pay for the rest. 
  Finally, itÅfs time to use my [Technical: Bowling Ball Juggling] Skill at 45%
  If the Psychic were to ÅgTurn OffÅh their Second Order Effect, their Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Order Effects would also 
be shut down to conserve mental energy. Everything builds off one another. 
  The Psychic may use their Reaction to Block on behalf of the Ally, or the Ally can choose to Block instead. 
  At Base 1 ESP for 1 HP, it would take 10 Minutes to heal 10 HP. But must be Sustained the entire time. 
  As another "Incentive" to help others, they will forfeit any bonus Karma they would have gained in addition to their 
default Karma if they refuse to perform a request that they failed against.
  A ÅgBattle RifleÅh can just as easily be a Colt Ranger .68 as much as a banditÅfs stolen Helena V from Stony Point. Adding personal flair to weapons is encouraged. 
  If an entity is flying above you, it counts as Range 1, with an AA Weapon, it counts as Range 0. 
  First Action to Attack, Second Action to Attack has a -4, Third Action to Attack has a -8, etc etc. 
  Multi-Use Technical 
  An Autopistol is just a [Light Kinetic Turret] or a Cycler is a [Photon Ray Cannon] instead. Little things.
  For example, a Drifter has -2 Karma per CL, they would have 0 Karma to spend per CL. If they were to acquire +1 
Karma, they still have ÅgNegative KarmaÅh of -1 which would translate to 0. 
  Yes, a Combat Robot has access to no Skills outside of continually developing their ability to kill. 
  Due to the methods being able to ÅgBreakÅh the Three Laws of Robotics are easily accessible, it has become somewhat of 
a moral guidepoint for a Robot to Keep the Law or become a Lawbreaker. 
Possibly Rework
 
 
 
 
